<ICLE-GE-AUG-0036.1>

When Nazi-Germany annexed the CSSR, the soon-to-be Allied Forces waited, and stayed silent. They didn't want to risk the peace, they didn't want to enrage Hitler. And so they did nothing to stop him. The result was WW II. The leaders of Great Britain, of France, of the United States wanted just peace, but they got the biggest war ever in man's whole tragic history. Everyone just longs to have a bit of peace and tranquility, but still the world is harrassed by murderous wars. How does that happen? Imagine a bunch of people, who want to have a bit of peace and law and order in their country. That's just too normal. Then, imagine another bunch of people, who just want to live a free life, unhampered by all those strict and harsh rules which limit their freedom immensely. They protest, perhaps even break some things. And what does the first party do? Imprison them? Kill them? Ignore them? If they take the extremes, they get peace but at a high price, if not, they won't get any. I hope you get the dilemma.
In global matters, peace is a delicate thing. If you ignore a war, people are killed, perhaps it escalates and boom. If you engage, you have to kill people, you could get drawn into the regional conflict, and it could as easily escalate as it could without you. Nice decision. Vietnam was born because Uncle Sam and Mom Russia had a family conflict about the future of their child. We make war in other countries to keep peace in our country. We want to create peace in a country, and the situation worsens, for us and for them. Should we do our best, even war, to ensure peace, or shouldn't we? This decision could preserve of doom thousands, even millions of people. It is not an easy one. I cannot give it for you, you must. But there's one thing to consider, and this is basically the same thing whether it's the question of solving the Yugoslavian Civil War or whether it just you quarrelling endlessly with your girl: Armed forceful Opposition does not solve conflicts, it hastens them. They are over in a shorter timespan, but with much more losses. But then only, the problems in question are solved. It does not ensure peace. Think about it.
