<ICLE-GE-AUG-0045.1>

"You will be bewitched, entranced, fascinated by our new wine!" This was the headline of a campain to advertise for the little wine-pub belonging to my friend. As I had also been invited, I cheerfully turned up one saturday evening. Although I am not used to drinking alcohol I didn't dare to refuse a glass of an exquisite French "Margot". But after the first glass the nightmare began. My head turned read and my cheeks got hot! After the second one I slowly slid under the table and, aided by my friend, I crawled out of the pub on all four. On the next day my head felt as if it had the dimension of one square meter and it took two whole days for the concussion to subside. Next time I turned up my friend advised me not to drink anymore alcohol and to leave this drug to the male population. So I ordered a Fanta light, sat down into the corner and observed other men drinking wine. Whether they made derogatory allusions to those who fuelled themselves with beer or whether they laughed about and pointed at some beer bellys, it seemed that drinking wine has become a status symbol of the "real" man. Not only gulping down the elixier is important but also the right way of consuming this exclusive beverage proves an expert on wine. First, they took a deep breath and put their nose into the glasses. Then, they sipped some drops and washed their teeth with them. An ignorant or a woman might have thought that they wanted to remove the remnants of the tooth paste but these experts just didn't grudge any place of their spoilt palates this superb flavour. Finally, they gradually swallowed it down and silently enjoyed the excellent taste for some minutes.
They looked at my Fanta light with consternation and from the triumph in their glance I could read: Fanta and beer is for everyone, but wine is only suitable for the real, tough man!
Due to the following conversation it appeared to me that a real man must boast of the fact how much he can drink. According to them there should be the "Olympic Games of Drinking" and no women should be admitted of course! Ten glasses would prove the "real" man and fifteen glasses would show the supermen!
Recoiled by so much showing-off I felt sympathy for their poor wives as on the next morning there is nothing left of these real men but only small worms with an aching head who have spent the whole night on the loo.
But when the night falls all bad memories are crossed out of their minds. There is nothing like a sparkling glass of Beaujolais to show that wine is the mark of a man and it would be indispensible for a real man to sip from an ordinary glass of water!
