<ICLE-GE-AUG-0025.1>

"It's getting on my nerves! Jill, answer the phone!" I screamed at the top of my voice last Saturday while I was in the kitchen preparing an apple pie. I almost couldn't believe it! It was the ninth time in only one hour that the phone was ringing. First it had been my husband who told me that he had to work longer and wouldn't come home for lunch, then the car mechanic phoned to tell me that it would cost 2500,- DM to repair our car. Three times it was Jeff, my daughter Jill's boy-friend, who got on my nerves on the phone and finally my mother-in-law thought it was necessary to phone four times an hour to find out whether her son was at home. Jill rushed into the kitchen: "Grandma wants to know whether you need her help with the apple pie." "I just need someone who helps me to get rid of the nuisance in the hall called telephone" I shouted. After Jill had shut the door and I was alone in the kitchen again I started to think about the idea of living without a telephone and first it seemed to be a quite pleasant one: no mother-in-law on the phone, no Jeff phoning in the middle of the night, no high telephone bills because our toddler Jimmy had tried to phoned his grandpa again and phoned the U.S. embassy in France instead, because he was still too small to know the numbers. "When I must phone somebody I can go to a telephone box" I thought. "Somebody?" Who were the people I phoned: there was Helen, my friend of the school-days. You couldn't phone Helen before 10 o'clock in the evening because she worked as a nurse and always started working around noon and came home late in the evening. It would be quite uncomfortable to hurry to the phone box on a chilly winter evening with the gloves on.
Who else did I phone? My husband Jim. Often I told him to buy a packet of sugar and flour in the supermarket on his way home so that I didn't have to go there again, when I had forgotten it.
Suddenly something completely different came to mind: what would I do when Jimmy was ill? It was impossible to leave him alone in the house to go to the phone box. On the other hand you couldn't take a little boy of 2 and 1/2 with high temperature to the phone box with you when it was raining cats and dogs! In this case you really needed a telephone in the house. Mrs Miller, who lives next door, had only survived her terrible heart-attack because she broke down next to the phone and could phone the hospital at once. What a useful invention a telephone is! Especially Helen would agree: she wouldn't be married to Rick now if he hadn't dialed the wrong number again and again. It's true - they got to know each other on the phone. Three months later they were married. My thoughts digressed: they spent their honey-moon in ... "Rrrrrrr!"
The ringing of the phone was the noise that brought me back to reality. "Hello" I murmured exhaustedly. "Congratulations, Mrs Caulfield" a young energetic voice shouted. "You are the winner of Telecom games. Every month everybody who has a phone at home has got the chance to win 50000.- DM. Congratulations, Mrs Caulfield!" he bellowed again. I dropped the phone. Jill stood behind me: "Mum? Do you still want to get rid of the telephone?"
