<ICLE-GE-AUG-0092.1>

TV commercials are for many people a pain in the neck. Fifteen minutes of every hour belongs to the commercials. Especially the privat TV stations use the full time of an quarter of an hour to annoy their audience. It's 20.15, you sit down in your convenient armchair in the living room. Beer and crisps are on the table. Today your favourite TV programme is on: Tatort. The film begins, setting the scene is over and Götz George is in massive trouble for the first time. A gangster holds a gun at George's head. I'm paralysed with tension. I feel sweat running down my forehead, I'm staring at the screen. Suddenly some people in two Spanish villages are scrubbing and brushing their enormous pans, full of grime and fat. The village that uses "fairy ultra", the best, cheapest and best smelling washing powder, succeeds in cleaning the pan in a shorter time. Where as the other people have to work till night comes. They use an average washing powder that is not that "ultra strong" than "fairy ultra" is. The loud Spanish flamenco is over and Götz George is about to free himself and arrest the gangster. I'm still with the scrubbing people in Spain and think for myself how I would clean that terrible, over-seized pan. As I wasn't able to turn over so fast to the crime story again I lost the first scene. My tension has gone. It's now hard to find back into the world of crime. It takes another fifteen minutes till I'm in again. There are already three dead persons and the story is near the end. Who is the murderer? George is just about to tell the name when two little, rosy babies are on the screen. One is giggling and chuckling and the other one is screaming like hell. The first one has got the long-tested, super-soft nappies on, with the "dry zone" where as the other baby is wet because of the usual cheap, old-fashioned nappy. Two stupid mothers are discussing about baby's nappies; the pros of Pampers and the cons of the noname nappy.
It was Johann Forster that killed the three people because he didn't want to share the money with anybody else.
I'm a bit confused and before I can follow the crime story again, the film is over.
At the end one can ask why there are so many commercials on TV during the films. In my opinion it would be better to have one or two hours of pure commercials per day. So people who like commercials could watch them without being interrupted by crime stories or other programmes.
