<ICLE-GE-AUG-0062.1>

Look into the big companies nowadays. Who is hurtling through the corridors in order to get things done in time? Who rushes through the supermarket a quarter to six, to buy food for supper? Who nurses crying babies to make them happy? Who has to coordinate daily life with a whole range of tasks like house-hold, work, children, courses in the spare-time? Today's emancipated woman! Concerning the male half of the world, they pretend to be busy with work and are hardly available for familiar undertakings. In most families the mother comes to see the teacher, if there are any problems with the children at school, she takes it over to invite friends for dinner, she looks out to visit exibitions and concerts - so it is she, who creates social and cultural life within the family. She takes the daughter to the piano-lesson and picks the son up after a tennis-match. So what else can the manager of so different activities be than an emancipated woman? Besides that, more and more women plan their career in the upper floor of big companies. They invade degree courses like BWL, mathematics, physics, chemistry, pharmacy etc., at university so-called "hard sciences" which, in former times, were almost exclusively attended by male students.
The crucial point that the emancipated woman is not dead is the fact, that more and more women take over full responsibility for theirselves, their job and their family as well. They manage to continue working, although they raise children, which demands quite a big amount of attention, they are successful at work, otherwise they would be fired. They lose more and more the image of a simple, naive house-wife, because they get another perspective and another shaping as members of the working-class. Thus, they don't need the financial protection of their husbands any more. They repair their cars by themselves. They apply for computer-courses. They learn about marketing and how to use this knowledge effectfully. They don't wait any more for doors to be hold open by their boy-friends or husbands. For a woman, it isn't a major undertaking any more to go out alone or with a few girl-friends on a Friday night.
