<ICLE-GE-AUG-0098.1>

Do you like soft bread, old salad, recycled cheese and totally oversalted chips? Then I'll give you the good advice to visit McDonald's, Burger King or something like that.
All meals are cheap and besides very delicious. When you are used to eat that food every day, you'll surely feed yourself healthyly and you'll soon lose weight. It's even the TV commercials that invite you to step into the cosy restaurant. Several times each day, Thomas Gottschalk informs you and especially your children about the huge number of burgers that are sold: Hamburgers, Cheeseburgers, Big Macs, McRibs, Fish Macs, Hamburger Royals with or without tomatoe and a leaf of salad. It's indeed very difficult to make a choice from this sortiment. When you prefer vegetarian food, however, you can get a lovely mixed salad, an apple pie, an ice cream with different kinds of sauces: chocolate, strawberry or caramel. The best thing to me are the chips. They are very slim and long; I like them because of their salty taste. Each time when I had eaten them I didn't become thirsty at all. It's a lousy trick from the people, to spread such a lot of salt on the chips that the consumers have to order more and more beverages, as for example coca cola, lemonade, beer, milk, water or even a milk shake, to slow down their need to drink. Especially in winter, I'm always glad when I receive a mug of coca cola with lots of ice cubes in it.
Don't enter the restaurant at lunch time or after a football game! You'll surely find it totally overcrowded. People from all nations meet there as McDonald's is indeed world famous. The group of visitors starts with the small children up to the very old ones. Everybody simply wants to have fun and enjoy the menue. While parents relax after the heavy meal, smoking one cigarette or two, there's a separated corner for the children to play.
But the best thing with McDonald's is the fact that it's open almost 24 hours a day. When you leave the disco with some friend of yours at one o'clock in the morning and you suddenly become very hungry, I'm sure you'll find the doors of McDonald's still open. It seems as if they would have expected you, as there are still all kinds of burgers available. When you aren't in the mood of getting out of your car, it's no problem at all.
McDonald's has also solved that problem: the McDrive! you just have to move your car in front of the window where a friendly, beautiful waitress satisfies your wishes within the next few seconds.
