<ICLE-GE-AUG-0055.1>

People can sometimes be so bothersome, so unfriendly or impolite, that I sometimes can't help to like my dog more than anybody else.
I was riding to the town centre the other day, when an elderly lady with a walking stick stepped into the bus. She looked at me with blaming glint in her eyes and demonstratively cleared her throuth, so that I realized she wanted my seat and got up. After two stops she got up again and moved towards the door, where I was standing, my back turned towards her. Instead of saying something she started kicking me with her walking stick and, pushing past me to the door, again blamed me with her eyes for having dared to stand in her way. My dog is certainly more polite than this old lady; it can't even produce this glint in its eyes!
But it is not only politeness that many people are lacking, it is also tactfulness. My neighbour is, I should say, one of the nosiest persons I know. He always wants to know who has just been visiting me and why. He likes asking me whether my boy-friend and I are still together or not - and it doesn't take long until the whole street knows. I have to be careful not to forget to draw the curtains in the evenings to make sure that my neighbour doesn't watch me eating pizza in front of the goggle box or playing chess with my father. My dog sometimes watches me, too, but always out of adming, never out of curiousity.
Sometimes it is my own little brother that drives me crazy, when I have to look after him while my parents go out in the evenings. He loves doing the opposite of what I want him to do, and, of course, he hates going to bed. He always makes me let him ride on my back, let him win when we play games, let him choose the TV programme and the menu for supper, otherwise he starts screaming his head off and my nerves can't put up with an ear-splitting noise like that. My dog never makes me do what he wants me to - he is obedient and likeable. As I said, the more get to know how people can be, the more I like my dog.
