<ICLE-GE-AUG-0049.1>

Before I went to England for the first time, everybody told me how dreadful the English cooking is. But I thought that it couldn't be that bad. Every country has it's own specialities and most of the time they are very good.
I spent my first night in England in a little hotel in London. The next morning I was hungry and I looked really forward to my breakfast. The menu said that I could choose between "Continental Breakfast" and an English breakfast. Remembering the warnings from the people back home I ordered the "Continental Breakfast".
I had to wait for about 15 minutes. Then the waiter finally came. He put a little basket with two pieces of white bread a glas of light yellow orange juice, a little piece of butter in a silver wrapper and a tiny pot of marmalade in front of me. Then he told me that my tea would come in a few minutes.
I looked at my breakfast and decided to start with the orange juice. It tasted how it looked: The light yellow colour should have given me a hint. There was more water than orange in the orange juice. Then I put some butter and marmalade on the bread hoping that this would taste better than the "juice". But the first bite got nearly stuck in my throat. The butter was salted and the bread wasn't crisp. It was soft and fluffy and tasted like a dry sponge or like a piece of paper.
But I was hungry and so I finished my breakfast. When my tea finally arrived I had decided that I didn't want to drink it. But after the dry bread I was thirsty to so I tried it. After the first sip I started to smile. At least the tea was good. Not only good, but gorgeous. After breakfast I left the hotel to go sight-seeing. At about half past twelve I was hungry again. I went into a little restaurant and sat down. When the waitress came I ordered a steak with peas and french fries, hoping that it wouldn't be as bad as my breakfast. But my hopes were deceived. I didn't even try to eat the steak, because I didn't manage to cut it into pieces with the knife. The peas tasted as if they had been cooking for 10 hours and the french fries were soaked with grease.
So I left the restaurant hungry and fortunately I found a McDonald's.
During the rest of my holiday in Britain I just ate fast food at McDonald's, Wendy's and Wimpy's.
