<ICLE-GE-AUG-0066.1>

If one were to open a newspaper these days or listen to the news on radio or television, one is confronted with words like "neonacism", "Solingen", "5 Turks killed by young Germans". This, however, must or at least should always be seen as a newspaper story where some journalist tried to get most of the action and one should also keep in mind that those people do not represent Germany as a whole.
One day as I was riding my bike through the village when I met a Turk, who was of middle-age and busy with implanting shrubs, trees and flowers in his garden. I had heard of them before and knew that someone foreign had moved into our small village which is not really open to new or even foreign things and people. Anyway, they had just recently finished building their house and the deed of Solingen was still fresh in all minds since it had just happened a few days ago. I was surprised and mad about those ignorant 16 year old guys who had "just killed a few Turks by the way". The turkish man waved and smiled and greeted me with "Grüß Gott" in his Turkish accent. Spontaniously I decided to stop and talk to him, probably with intention to show that what happened at Solingen is an exception. We talked a little, I asked him where he came from, about his life, told him that I thought of it as a great accomplishment to build this house. We were chatting away, forgetting about the time. Suddenly I was surrounded by woman, many children who's ages ranged from babies to toddlers who waddled shakily more that walking up to old tremulous grannies who were shuffling and hobbling. Hardly one besides the father, the head of the family spoke German. Nevertheless, they were all friendly smiling at me and motioned me in their house. I was offered a seat and Turkish food and drink specialties. The children sat to my feet, listened to me talking German as if I was telling them the most thrilling and entertaining fairy-tale they had ever listened to. The women would not stop dishing up food and piling it up in front of me. In the meantime the father started to trust me more and more and I kept encouraging him to tell me about all him and his family.
I stayed until the breaking of the dawn, when I suddenly realized what time it was. I assured the man, who translated everything into Turkish that I had a wonderful afternoon and I would come around more often. Before I left I thanked them for being perfect hosts and hostesses. As I got on my bike, they waved good-bye, holding each others hand. On my way home I was at ease and filled with a feeling, hard to describe - a mixture of happiness, and satisfaction.
As you see, it is not the case that foreigners are not longer welcome in Germany. I arranged a party in honour of this Turkish family and their new house. More than half of the village was up on its feet, giving these people a warm welcome and making them feel at home indeed. I am still friends with this family and I have had a great impact on my family's and friend's opinion about foreigners due to this experience of mine.
