<ICLE-GE-AUG-0069.1>

It's very hard these days to live in Germany as a foreigner. Every time I read the newspaper I learn more about the terrible actions against people that should be our friends. Their houses are set on fire, they're beaten down with bottles or baseball rags or they are even killed in fights with Neo-nazis who try to show their courage. But these things that you can see on TV are only the top of the iceberg. The everyday discrimination is sometimes even worse: Last week I went shopping in Augsburg and when I got off the bus I saw the writing on the wall: "Ausländer raus". Only a few minutes later I saw a tall, blond German who stumbled and hit a little Turkish child playing around with his toys on the sidewalk. He didn't even apologize for what he'd done but shouted at the girl not to play where he would like to walk. He left the crying girl sitting on the asphalt without a word of comfort. When I helped her and gave her a hanky, there were a lot of people staring at me and I could read in their faces that they wondered if I was totally crazy to talk with a Turkish girl. Some of them looked away, others hurried on, but nobody did help.
When I entered a shoe-shop behind a Polish-looking woman the assistant came immediately towards me and asked if he could help me. I told him to ask the other woman first as she came in earlier, but he remarked that this wouldn't be necessary as she would find everything alone. I didn't say anything and left the shop - maybe he asked her afterwards, but I don't believe that.
I was very sad and not in the mood to go on with shopping and returned to the bus stop in order to buy a ticket at the automatic machine. When I came there an old woman pushed away a chinese girl and told her not to use these machines if she didn't understand them. I helped her later with her ticket and asked politely if I could do anything else for her but she only shook her head.
All this is very depressing and I hope that it will not last a hundred years until Germans will recognize that it is a great thing to get to know as much from other cultures as possible.
