<ICLE-GE-AUG-0100.1>

On our way back from our holiday in Austria eleven years ago me and my family, we stopped in Munich in order to eat something for lunch. My parents chose a nice, genteel restaurant to go to. Willy-nilly, my two brothers and I, we had to follow them, although we discovered a colourful McDonald's restaurant not far away. Naughty as we were, we didn't eat anything and streched our parents' nerves until they let us go with a few marks in our pockets. Overjoyed, we threw our jackets over ourselves, dashed out and raced to this gigantic place where we finally spent all our money on chips, hamburgers, cheeseburgers and coke. And it was so yummie.
About the same time my cousin Christina worked in such a place in order to earn money in her spare time. She often told me about their way to prepare all the delicious food. She told me how disgusting she found it that they used the same oil to fry chips for at least four weeks. And the kitchen was a paradise for rats racing around quite often. But that didn't bother me at all, I turned a deaf ear on it. Why shouldn't I eat what I liked so much.
When I was sweet seventeen I met my friends at the bus station of our village several times a week. One sunny Sunday afternoon nobody had any idea what to do. Suddenly Tom, an 18 year-old guy who had a new black BMW, had a glance in his eyes: "Why shouldn't we just take two of our cars and go to Augsburg to have a few hamburgers at the Drive-in MacDonalds?" Well, Augsburg was 80 kilometres away but it didn't matter. We were all enthusiastic about the idea. It turned out to be a funny trip and we returned in the evening.
My only bad experience concerning fastfood restaurants was when I spent a week in Paris with my class six years ago. About lunch time we were in the "Champs Elysees" and all our stomachs began to rumble. We convinced our teacher Mr Brown to go to the Burger King besides the "Arc de Triomphe". So we went in, had a delicious meal and continued our sightseeing program afterwards. But one or two hours later I suddenly noticed that I lost my blue scarf in that Burger King, which I was very sad about.
Anyway, these times when fastfood was one of my favourites suddenly changed. At the age of twenty I was still in our local youth club where we met once a week and talked about different subjects such as Aids, atomic energy, television programs and New Age. One evening our leader showed us a film called "Dschungelburger". This film was just horrible. It was dealing with these huge forests in America which were all cut down only to engender enormous meadows for all the thousands and millions of buffalos which MacDonalds needs for its uncountable number of hamburgers. They also showed a slaughter house with the buffalos hanging in there one beside the other. It looked so brutal and disgusting. Well, and finally they said that the hamburgers don't only consist of nice meat but that they used up just everything of the animals. We were all shocked, indeed. After having seen the film we discussed about it and became all very interested in more information. We worked on this subject for almost half a year. We didn't only collect informations about MacDonalds restaurants, but we wanted to know everything concerning food in general. In the end we visited a farmer who grows his carots, onions, potatoes, turnips and parsnips in an organic way.
In the meantime some of us specialized in wholemeal food. If we see a fastfood restaurant we walk by on the other side of the road and try to inform more people about the backgrounds. And, for sure, I can't imagine a life without my own kitchen garden, without my pickled beetroot, homemade apple-puree, my delicious sourdough bread with all the nuts and spices in it and without my freshly pressed apple juice anymore.
