<ICLE-GE-AUG-0099.1>

Do you know how it feels? Your tiny trembling hands clutching it on a cold winter's day - it's soft, it's warm, it scents really promising, the cling foil wrap almost feels like baby cheeks and it's 100% energy: a hamburger royal or, less sophisticated, a simple but true cheeseburger.
Fastfood has become all the rage in all parts of the world from Jamaica to Jerusalem. Even critics have to admit that there are obvious reasons for that development.
Fastfood is not unhealty like some cranky carrot-munchers claim. From a scientific point of view an average MacRibb contains 30% proteines, 37% poly unsaturates, 5% vitamines of all kinds.
The whole nutritious value is 100% of the power of a bull. Only the strongest, healthiest oxen are suitable for MacDonald's famous McRibb - they are raised especially for that purpose on vast, green farmgrounds in south America. You can be sure that they lead a happy and healthy life and give us all their happy and healthy meat.
Furthermore a MacRibb consists not only of beef - there is also a lot of vegetables: the core of it is a whole slice of cucumber, a leaf of fresh green iceberg lettuce and last but not least half a handful of sesame seed on top.
Fastfood contains a lot of ingredients that your body seems to need for working orderly: A friend of mine who is a taxi driver always longs for having a few minutes off every evening to enjoy his favourite MacBacon with chips - he says he couldn't do the job without it. 11 o'clock sharp his hands, clutching the steering wheel, start trembling and shaking, beads of sweat trickle down his temples, his eyes pop out of his face - it's time for the MacBacon to relieve him.
Fastfood is international. It helps tearing down frontiers and cultural barriers all over the world. A Burmese hamburger does not in the least differ from a Brussels one. So you'll never fall into a trap when getting yourself something to eat abroad - no fried kittens or alsatians, just 100% beef. Fastfood also helps to heal a society so class-ridden as the English is. All kinds of social classes come into Burger King's at noon: filthy, piercing brats from the Docklands, detached, graceful office secretaries with long, varnished fingernails and handsome polite ambassadors with their dark Armani suits and their foreign accents. Fastfood is rather progressive. Ordering your meal at a computerized machinery - speaking to the droning voice on the megaphone - that gives you the thrill of the future! Have you ever suffered the pain of home-cooking? Dragging large, heavy weighing bags from Sainsburys to the bus stop, being overseen by a reckless cyclist when getting off, with all the food - eggs, tomatoes, tuna steaks and honey - scattered all over the place? Do you feel the heat on your red glowing cheeks when handling two pans with sizzling fat on a hot day in July?
It's far less fuss, and also a lot cheaper to eat out at the take away just around the corner. Life is to be enjoyed!
There's also a lot of fun connected with the fast food business. Fast food creators are really inventive. Whopper, Whoppy-bopper, Baby-beefy, Toasty-toady, Hot Dog, Hot Bull or Fishy-dishy are only a tiny fraction of all those wonderful imaginative names for the heavenly food. No wonder it appeals to nippies all over the world - they've chosen Ronald MacDonald their favourite celebrity in 1992; Michael Jackson only comes second! The most striking fact is that everybody does eat fast-food! It's popular and not only yum - it's yummy-yummy-yum!
