<ICLE-GE-AUG-0035.1>

I think it very important to be ecology-consious because every human being has got the obligation to think also at the future and the ecological status of the world. In my opinion no one can close his eyes against the increasing air pollution and the dangerous ozon lawyer that becomes bigger and bigger and endangeres the whole atmosfere and all life on earth. We must think of the future and what it will being for us and our children. That's why I think that everyone should do his best to make a contribution to the saving of the world. If anyone would seperate his rubbish, that means to throw bottles into glass-containers or paper in the paper-containers etc, this would be the first step to help our environment to recover from the mountains of rubbish. Many people throw away things in the forest without thinking about the consequences. Those people should change their attachement drastically.
In my opinion the pollution all over the world is such enormous and dangerous, that nowadays it would be an illusion to think it could even be stopped totally. But I still believe in the possibility to postpone the ecological katastrofe by becoming more ecology-conscious. Of course, sacrifices must be made in order to do one's proper contribution to the nature. People should try to avoid driving by car, using polluting cosmetics and should not waste electricity or other raw materials. Of course there will still be people who do not care about such things. But in my opinion being ecology-conscious and trying to save the environment makes oneself feel better, because in this way one knows to have done his best to save the world.
But on the other hand pessimists say that it is worthless to be ecology-conscious because the climatic katastrofe is inevitabile because people could not live without industry, and industry pollutes the environment. In some way they are right. But my solution would be to change the opinion of the people and make them clear that money is not as important as nature.
