<ICLE-GE-AUG-0061.1>

When I came home yesterday night, an odd thought came to my mind: The more I get to know of people, the more I like my dog!
In comparison to many people I know, my brown shaggy dog does not mind neither whether I am wearing latest fashion or not nor whether I do in my spare time what society judges to be fashionable or not.
Yesterday I had been to the formal ball the mayor of our town had organized to collect some money for Norogachic, a very poor village deep in the dry and bare Mexican Sierra Madre Occidental. "As a teacher of the local Grammar school you are expected to go there," my husband had told me with a smirk. So I had passed a whole evening chatting with the Mr. Dressman, the owner of a far-famed restaurant and with his wife, Duchesse Ann. Mr. Dressman was wearing an expensively tailored suiting and golden tiepin and cufflinks, Duchesse Ann an elegant red-and-black Bogner dress. All the night long her red lips were streched in a smile that seemed to be frozen on her face. She kept asking me why I didn't want to join her and the mayor's wife and other excellent women of our little town for playing golf every Monday.
What I like most of my cuddly dog is that he will always have time for me when I need him. And even more than that: He is always happy if you take a stroll with him.
Last week my husband had to go to Hamburg and so I was alone. When I felt lonely one afternoon I phoned my neighbour and asked her what she thought of going to the cinema. A film about Kafka was on. She told me then that she was terribly sorry but she absolutly has to iron her son's clothes. We found out that the next day she had a tennis class in the morning and a cooking course in the afternoon and in the evening she was invited to come to Mr. Miller's house.
True, it is often easier to get along with your dog than with people, but you can never have an interesting discussion with it. Never will it enjoy a book on Chagall's paintings together with you or do the cooking for you. So try to see the positive sides of living together with people. And may be you can have a dog as well.
