<ICLE-GE-AUG-0087.1>

Television commercial always interrupts a film at the most interesting parts in order to make the viewers stay tuned.
Tom, a hard-working superintendent of the cereal cannery, is laying on his bed watching a very interesting movie. It is one of these movies where the suspension is build up and you don't even dare to go to the toilet inbetween because you are afraid you might miss an important part. Then suddenly when the murderer just opened the door holding a long and shiny knife in his hand creeping carefully and noiselessness towards the young and beautiful lady sitting on the stool in front of the piano playing a sonet by Mozart you suddenly see an average looking woman holding up a box of washing powder. This middle-age, middle-heigth woman with a good complexion but some wrinkles under her eyes and a friendly smile tells you how much she likes this particular product because it doesn't only clean your clothes but it's also good for the Nature.
Linda is biting her fingernails and holding a pillow in her arms while watching her favourite TV-series like she does every Tuesday evening. During the last couple of weeks you never knew if this handsome young man was able to win the love of the princess who is only allowed to marry a man when he has fulfilled the three tasks every man has to do first. Now the only thing that's left to do is to find the ring that is hidden in a pile of hey and then he can finally kiss the woman he loves. He pulls the ring out, starts to smile and turns around to the princess. The admireably and fascinating face of the young woman with the bright blue eyes and the snub-nose starts to glow expecting the lover's kiss. Then suddenly you hear roaring music and a cross-country driver tells you how important it is to eat healthy food advertising a low-calorie juice. The look of this muscular and manly sportsman is a exact contrast of the boyish looking adolescent in the film, that is interrupted by this spot.
Television commercial should be banned because it disturbes the fun one feels while watching a movie because it doesn't let a tension build up because of these interruptions.
In my opinion there are less people watching television nowadays anymore, this is the long and well-made movies because they don't feel like "consuming" three or four commercial blocks inbetween.
