<ICLE-GE-AUG-0079.1>

Yeah - weekend. Liza's last lesson on Friday-afternoon.
Quickly she collects all her papers and pens and throws them into her satchel. Waving good-bye to her friends she jostles out of the school-building. When she gets home, the whole family is already awaiting her. Her father is red as a beetroot - if she had forgotten that they wanted to spend some days out in the green - he yells at her. Yes, she had forgotten ...
Liza didn't want to think about these endless, horrible weekend trips, she detested so much. In their over crowded van, stuffed with cooler and deck-chairs, TV and transportable loo they did it just like all the other mad Londoners. They were trying to get away from stress and smog, they longed for peace and quiet in the suburbs or even a bit further out and headed towards the blossoming orchards of Kent or the fertile Southcoast regions near Portsmouth or Brighton.
Peace and quiet? What an idealized idea of Mr. Burton, Liza's father ...
Tons and tons of four-wheeled coloured can-like motorcars try to make their way back to nature. Red traffic lights and unbearable traffic-jams prevent them from getting anywhere. They are lucky if they reach a point further away from the town center than their actual residence still they have to face millions of other city-people, worn-out businessmen, frustrated housewifes, screaming children, anyone from doctors to shop-assistants to bankers, who are doing just the same.
The camp-ground resembles more a fair than spot which is highly recommended for its natural beauty, the nearby lake looks like a huge, greyish puddle. One towel is next to the other, the deck-chairs are arranged in long rows.
Liza knows exactly what is awaiting her - hot arguments between her parents, her bored elder brother, long hours in the car. She can't see the point in leaving London over the weekends - there's just as much cars, as much noise, as many quarrels as back home. The persuasions her father is using to win her interest are not convincing at all - to find unspoiled nature sounds like a fairy tale ... And if this development, of leaving the cities in masses, just for a few days, will continue, the tiny spots with natural beauty that are still left will be destroyed as well ...
