<ICLE-GE-AUG-0053.1>

Life in Augsburg can be very exciting, because it's a roaring, droning, buzzing, rattling and rumbling city. Especially when you're rambling through the city centre life is so exciting, that you will wish to live in the peaceful woods!
Every day without fail my stroll through Augsburg is an adventure of almost nigtmarish proportions. Everywhere you can hear the squealing and screeching of brakes, the discordant jangle of the trams, the screaming and shouting of angry people, the droning sound of the aeroplanes. The question is: "Will I, a pedestrian, survive or not?" If I want to cross a street, I have to pluck up all my courage to put my feet on it, because the car-drivers don't give a damn about pedestrians. Every time when I have arrived the middle of the street, suddenly a car seems to come out of nowhere and drives right in my direction. As it rushes past me, I can only see the furious flashing eyes of the driver and hear him say: "You bloody pedestrian, stay at home!" Than I am surrounded from a grey cloud reeked with a sulphurous, obnoxious smell. By drawing a deep breath I have to cough because my lungs can't bear the pungent stench of the exhaust fumes.
Finally I sneak along the pavement towards the safe traffic lights, but what a surprise! A delivery van obstructs my way so I have to walk on the dangerous street, if I want to or not. Now I am surrounded and hunted by angry cyclists ringing their bells and by furious drivers, shaking their fists. Cold sweat breaks out me and my heart is leaping and jumping like a tennisball. At last, I always decide to take the bus, because it's far more comfortable and safer. I cramble into it, fling myself into the seat and note with a scornful smile how the other pedestrians on the street are fighting for their lives.
As you see, you don't have to do free-climbing or bungee-jumping, because you can have the excitement right in front of your home!
You can already experience "the survival of the fittest" in the huge jungle of the city.
