<ICLE-GE-AUG-0029.1>

I don't accuse the Women's Lib Movement of being one of the worst trends of the last decades. Of course it doesn't seem admirable to spend all your life as your husbands pretty but brainless companion. All day long you have to go shopping, prepare excellent meals and change the babies' diapers. Beside you have to swallow comments like "each day you have got one more wrinkle" and God save you from hinting at the permanently growing forehead of your "great love". And why should women force their bottoms in sexy tight skirts, when they feel so much better in their blue jeans? There is also no reason that a female worker earns half the money of her male colleague when doing the same work.
To change this women decided to stand up for their rights. They left their husbands in the evenings with crying children, heaps of dirty dishes and laundry to find their own personality at the ladies' nights. Suddenly mothers decided to ride Harley-Davidsons, and to visit male strip-shows. They even would have liked the men to become pregnant and suckle the babies. Thousands of women became members in sports clubs and trained their muscles. The neighbour's wife looked like the white counterpart of Grace Jones afterwards and the butcher's wife didn't need a cleaver for separating the bones after her self-defense course.
A friend of mine insisted in overhauling her little car herself. With the instructions it was no problem to change the oil, the sparking plugs and the V-belt. But when she tried to start the motor a loud bang showed her that she had fixed the belt inside out. Now her husband is repairing the car again.
After prooving their independence for a while lots of women found out that a straight career doesn't always mean satisfaction. You can find your own personality as a mother and housewife too, and you can have so much fun and joy with your children. So after years of liberation women thought of their womanliness again and stopped training their muscles but started styling their bodies. The fashion became a feminine line again and showed the women as what they are: as intelligent partners with their own life.
