<ICLE-GE-AUG-0023.1>

I'm in bed now drifting off to sleep. I was watching a crime story that evening and now Angela whose husband had been killed by the "Mafia" entered into my dream. She could hear her husband struggling with his murderers and the only thing she could do was to call the police. I'm desperate and start panicking, they don't answer the phone. It's been ringing for ages, louder and louder. "Answer the phone" I shout and instantly I am wide awake. It has only been the phone on our floor in the students' hall. It was 2 o'clock at night and it has stopped ringing by now. I try to go back to sleep but I can't and so I start wondering about inconsiderate people, who call other people in the middle of the night. An idea is coming into my mind. How about buying my own telephone so I wouldn't have to bother answering the phone for the other 19 students living on my floor. The next morning I set off for the city to purchase one. What a great selection of telephones there is. If only my grandmother could see that the big black nostalgic ones are in fashion again. I had always been making fun of her old-fashioned telephone. Then there are the ordinary grey ones that can be found everywhere. They haven't got any character or anything special at all! I go around the next corner I find the highly technical ones. They are more like computers. You only have to dial once and the phone goes on dialing until it is answered. The selection of different colours is overwhelming. I go for the red one and sign the contract hoping that I will get it in a couple of days.
Walking home I try to imagine the different kinds of calls I might receive with my new phone. Would the first call be my boyfriend or an insurance company which tries to sell life insurances by telephone? Will I have the chance to help somebody, maybe even save a life, by offering to use my telephone? One advantage will definitely be that my chats at the phone won't be exposed to the public any longer. It has been getting on my nerves that my floor mates could listen to every single word I was saying.
Pondering over all the advantages my new little red companion would bring to me I suddenly remember that it was a phone that conveyed the sad massage that my dear grandmother had died. I can remember that day vividly when I was chatting away with my friend Sonay in London. As soon as I heard the phone I knew that it would be something terrible. On the other hand it has also been one of the grey little boxes that broke the news about my sisters new born baby-boy. Sometimes it is even convenient if you don't have to face the people you are talking to. It was this special phonecall when Wolfgang found out that I was in love with him. A couple of friends and I had been going out together and Wolfgang had been driving the car. Unluckily I had forgotten my scarf in his car and so I had to call him. My face was as red as a tomato and I was so glad that he couldn't see me. This call turned out to be our special one.
Last but not least the telephone helps that people living far away from each other are still able to hear each others voices. Again and again it is a wonderful suprise when a friend or a relative whose staying in England, America or Africa calls to hear what's going on at home.
