<ICLE-GE-AUG-0028.1>

It is 8 a.m., rushhour, somewhere on the A8, the motorway between Augsburg and Munich.
Nervous drivers glancing every few seconds at their watch are fighting their way through the multitude of cars. The proprietor of a red BMW seems to be in a great hurry. He approaches from behind at a high speed and urges the driver in front of him to free the way. The driver in front of him is forced to react quickly because the distance between the two cars is only about 2 meters - and that at a speed of 180 km/h. 8.30, 5 km from Munich. You can hear the wail of the sirens of the ambulance and the police. An accident has occured: a red BMW has crashed into a Fiat Bambino. The place looks terrible: pieces of metal, broken glass, and the worst of all everywhere blood. The blood of injured people lying on the streets, whimpering because of their pains. Three innocent people, a mother and her two children, who were sitting in the Fiat, got involved in a tragic accident - the results of high speed. Drivers who threaten the life of other people by driving at such high speeds that they loose control over their cars are a traffic hazard.
Latest scientific researches have shown that driving at high speed causes more exhaust fumes. Those destroy our atmosphere. They cause depletion of the ozone layer and the hot house effect and therefore they threaten the health and safety of man. The consequences are melting icebergs, flooded coastlines, a disrupted climate, parched plains and, ultimately, empty breadbaskets. Are we prepared to see Europe acquire the desert climate of Ethiopia? A world without trees and flowers - is that the reality he have to face in the future, just because our politicians don't want to introduce a speed limit on German motorways?
Finally it has to be mentioned that high speeds are accompanied by much noise: the roaring of the engines and the screeching of brakes. That's in my oppinion, too much for the animals who live in the woods next to motorways. They are disturbed in their calving grounds and mating patterns - a fact that can not be tolerated.
It often happens that a cerf leaves the forest and calmly crosses a motorway, he sashays over the road, because he doesn't know that he isn't allowed to do so. The results can be tragic if a car at high speed hits the animal. We humans must show consideration for the animals, because we share our nature with them. We are all just a part of it.
So I can't see the argument for driving at high speed. Therefore I plead the case for introducing a speed limit on German motorways.
