<ICLE-GE-AUG-0076.1>

"Yes, of course, right now, let's go" - "No, not at all, the misery in Somalia is not my fault" - that's the range of answers to this daring question. And in between there is "Yes, I would, if I could or should, but ...". Particularly this kind of reaction seems half-hearted on the first sight, although there is some importance and justification to it.
We all want to help in a place where famine and political and social disorder killed hundreds of innocent children, women and men in the past years. But how to do it? Many helpful hands have started to work for the good quite a time ago - from the Red Cross to private doctors who decided to help in Somalia - despite the looming danger of assassination or attacks by military forces. Surely those people are not staying there in order to risk their life - but they stay there, knowing the danger, in order to finish their work of humanitarian aid. They are driven by a desire to help and not by a desire to be in an adventure. And it is the same if it comes to the military, which job it is to protect the humanitarian aid and create the neccessary circumstances for that aid.
But now - how to answer the question? It can be answered honestly and correctly only by those, who by their job can face the decision whether to stay here or to really take the risk - so that are members of the military forces, of the UN-administration and of organizations for humanitarian aid. Their job is to go right there where misery reigns - and they know it before they take up their job. So, trying to answer this question without the possibility to being tested on one's answer doesn't make any sense. I could fill pages with nobel reasons, argueing with the motive of charity, courage and justice, trying to prove my sincerity and unselfish character - it is all worthless because no one can tell me to stand up to it.
So, I admire all those who do risk their life in their efforts to help others - and I would like to be able to do the same one day.
