<ICLE-GE-AUG-0074.1>

During the past few month one topic that appeared in the news and the newspaper almost every day was "Ausländerfeindlichkeit".
The brutal, sad and unfair incidents of Möllen and Solingen put Germany into the spot-light. The whole world was looking at Germany and the Germans. But unfortunately we got into the head lines in a very negative way.
Foreigner, especially Turks and Africans, don't feel save and welcomed in Germany anymore. The forms people express their hatered start from unfriendly, discusting and primitive remarks like "Turks smell like garlic", "Foreigners are lazy and criminal" to crimes like "beating foreigners, burning their houses and murdering sleeping children.
When you ask this kind of people, if they know any foreigners you will most of the time hear an answer like "no, not really; I don't have any personal contact with them" and so on.
Once my friends and I went to a bar in Munich. A few tables away from us a small group of young Turks were waiting for the waiter to order. The waiter passed their table many times but never served them. After five minutes he asked us for our order and five minutes later he brought our drinks. The young Turks were still waiting for their drinks though they got to this bar before me and my friends.
After half an hour my friend called the waiter and asked him why he would not serve the group over there. One could tell that the waiter was astonished and a little embarrassed by the question. He came up with a stupid excuse that he did not see them and they must have gotten here a few minutes ago. The waiter walked away and served other guests but not the Turks. My friends and I decided to order for the young men. We went over to their table and asked them how long they have been waiting for their drinks. They have been sitting here for almost an hour. We went back to our table, called the waiter and ordered the drinks for the Turkish group. Ten minutes later he brought the beers. We sat together with our new Turkish friends and had a nice evening. We got to know how bad foreigners are treated by some Germans. Me and my friends were ashamed. They told us about a pregnant young Turkish woman who had to get up from her seat in the street car because a German healthy woman about 40 years old insisted to sit on that seat. They also told us about their difficulties getting into a disco. The bouncers find all kind of excuses like "today it is members only" or "it is already full inside" to keep them outside. We got aware how many problems and difficulties foreigners face in everyday life. We should try to make their stay as nice and pleasent as possible and not attack them verbally and physically. We - this country - needs foreigners. Let's give them the feeling that they are welcomed.
