<ICLE-GE-AUG-0022.1>

"Bzz - bzz - bzz ..." Where is this annoying sound coming from? "Bzz - bzz - bzz ..." It must be five o'clock in the morning. Five o'clock in the morning?? Suddenly it hits me like a hammer. I jump out of my bed, throw over some fresh clothes and rush down the stairs, taking two steps at one time. Hastily I pull the "Augsburger Allgemeine" out of the mail-box and run up the stairs again. Breathlessly I search for the page titled "Appartments for rent". Here it is. I run over the lines. 2 rooms ... kitchen, £ 200,- ... with balcony ... no children ... no pets ... 54m² ... Ah, this one sounds nice. 3-room-appartment, kitchen, bathroom, near university, £ 300,-. Call 85 35 25. After having finally reached the number, having arranged a meeting and having called my boy-friend to pick me up, we are now in the appartment for rent to have a closer look at it. The flat looks great. It's exactly what we have been looking for. And even the price is suitable. Both my boy-friend and I try to leave a good impression on the man in black. He introduced himself as the owner of the flat. Up to now everything went great. He asked us the usual questions: "How old are you?", "Where do you work?", "Do you have any pets?". "Well", he said, "it seems that you're a very nice couple. I think ... we could talk about the contract." Is it real or is it a dream. We got the appartment. "Oh, one more question", the man in black is laughing. "Of course, you are married, aren't you?" Once again this put an end to our dream of an own appartment. No, we are not married. Marriage - is it an outdated institution nowadays?
Conny, a close friend of mine, is of the opinion that marriage doesn't do anything but cost a lot of money. It all starts with the wedding. First you think of a small ceremony just with your parents and your closest friends. It should be the most romantic day in your life, a day just for you and your partner. But as soon as you tell aunt Martha that you will be getting married this year she will reluctantly answer how glad she was for you and that she was going to wear her new pink dress on this occasion. So you end up in a gigantic wedding with 300 guests - half of them you hardly know - who want to be entertained, fed and drunk during your wedding day. The bill tears a big hole in your brief-case but nevertheless it was an unforgettable day, you calm yourself. Of course, when you are married you want to live in a nice house with a huge garden for your children to play in. Children - have you ever thought about all the thing children need: a room on their own, comfortably furnished, toys, clothes, something to eat. Let's stop the list here. So marriage is quite an expensive undertaking. In contrast to that I must put forward that it's exactly marriage that helps you save money. Just think of all the taxes you don't have to pay when you are husband and wife. Furthermore, you are supported by the state who grants you money for each of your children. Most companies even pay extra wages to married employes. You see that married human beings have more money at their dispense than all those bachelors and couples who live in a "wild marriage".
"But", Conny says "marriage mostly means the end of love. I, for my part, felt like being kept on a chain. I can hardly bear the psychological pressure that is put on you by the wedding vow. Marriage should last forever. But how do you know that your love will last forever when you are just at the beginning of your life. Marriage just makes things more complicated than they usually are."
I, however, think that it is the other way round. Being married makes life a lot easier. I told Conny of our problems finding a place to live. Housing owners treat you like foreigners or social outcasts unless you show them the document saying that you are married. During our last holidays in the Near East we once had even trouble finding a hotel room. Even the children of not married couples feel the consequences, mostly at school where other pupils are not allowed to sit next to them.
The important decision of getting married or not is left up to all couples themselves. Don't think, however, just of yourselves but maybe even of your future children.
