<ICLE-GE-AUG-0067.1>

Members of nationalist and other political right-wing parties seem to have made this statement the main point of their ideology. Of course they are talking about people - poor people who had to leave their homes due to senseless wars and are now seeking nothing but a chance to live in peace and quiet - who ask for asylum in our rich country, but nontheless this message is heard throughout the world and foreigners don't seem to notice this distinction.
I personally received a letter from a friend whose mother is Greek and who has lived in Greece all his life. He used to come to Germany ever summer in order to visit his German relatives. But now he wrote that he is afraid to do so as he saw all those terrible documentations on TV where stupid, ferocious-looking, barbarian skinheads burnt down houses of immigrants and foreign workers. I immediately called him and informed him that the situation was not as civil war - like as shown on television. I pointed out that nobody I know is infected by this strange case of xenophobia and that all my friends joined me on the occasion of a march `against a new Nazi-age in Germany' through Augsburg. I explained that everybody with an IQ above that of an apple knows perfectly well that Germany actually needs the Turkish shops on the corner where you get those delicious exotic fruits as well as the garbagemen from Algeria and the French waiters and - of course - the wonderful Greek restaurants where so many people get carried away memorizing their wonderful holiday in Crete.
I also told my friend that travellers are actually as welcome as ever which I am sure of when I see all the smirking faces of people who live in Augsburg when they pass the Japanese and American tourists who stand in front of the townhall and take picture as if they were paid for it.
Yes, apart from some idiots whose brains are most probably as empty as their heads are hairy, I am sure that any foreigner is welcome in Germany. I would even say more welcome than in many other countries where the presence of your wallet seems to be much more appreciated than yourself.
