<ICLE-GE-AUG-0071.1>

Open the newspapers, regard the headlines of journals such as "Bild am Sonntag", that I deliver every Sunday morning or watch TV and you will see countless reports about foreigners and their cruality. Take a look at the Turk living peacefully for decades here in Germany. Most of the Turks you are able to see on the street every day are children of the once immigrating parents and thus born in Germany like you and me. But there are different groups here, and I sincerely hope minorities, who don't have anything to do but racial discriminiation. They try to make them responsible for all crimes taking place in the cities. Only the mean, nasty foreigner burns down houses, kills people and takes away our work. We have to suffer from poverty, we don't have to drink nor to eat because of the Greek, the Italians that took our money from us, need our health care ... Skinheads are decided to eject all foreign "human" beings out of Germany and meet somewhere in the darkness where they forge some mean plans against them. I remember a frightening incident taking place a few days ago, when I was walking down the street in order to get to my beloved fifteen year old car, it was about twelve o'clock and deep darkness around me except a few slightly twinkling stars up in the sky. Suddenly I heard a murmur of voices behind a huge tree but I couldn't make out anything because of the countless leaves hanging one close beside the other. My heart nearly stopped beating when there suddenly was a short numb cry and then bustling activity, five or six young boys were jumping down the tree and running down the street. I remember them laughing and chatting to each other. With enormous courage I went along the fence and tried to catch a glimpse of the person that had cried. I knew I was in a quarter where only some asylants were living and one of them was lying down there on the ground now, his face racked with pain. But when he became aware of me he stand up with immense effort and limped away. So I could only continue my way to my car but with trembling hands and shaky legs, desperate anger in the stomach about this cruciality.
