<ICLE-GE-AUG-0096.1>

A few years ago, a book about McDonald's was published revealing the unpleasant facts about the beloved fast food chain. Until then, the American idea of eating and drinking in a most efficient and cheap way had flourished not only in the United States, but had also spread to Europe and its "more cultivated" countries. Nobody was thinking about vitamins, wholefood or fibre. The most important thing about food was that it was tasty and easy to consume. Who could really afford to buy vegetables and fruits every day or go to a nice restaurant instead? And who could resist this picture of a McDonald's Big Mac filled with appetizing meat under a red tomato slice, some green salad and melted yellow cheese, all in all the composition of a delicious snack?
Nobody wanted to know that the sweet, coffeinated coke consisted mainly of sugar and water or doubted the spicy mince meat between the two halfs of the soft toasted bread of a Hamburger. Who wondered if the oil from the french fries was one day or one month old? On the contrary - from the grandmother to the granddaughter, from the teacher to the student, from rich to poor, everybody enjoyed this practicable and quick way of eating.
The book was a big scandal. Doctors and scientists united to heal modern society from the vice of fastfood. They told us about calories, artificial colours and tastes and about the effects such food can lead to. McDonald's goes so far to store the bread and potatoes for months, in fact too long to be healthy, and to buy meat from the cheapest markets like third world countries, only for their own benefit. They don't care a bit for their customers, only for their money.
Once the bad news were out, other reports followed and people started to think about what they were devouring day after day. A new conciousness about food and eating habits devellopped and McDonald's and other fast food chains were put under pressure in order to improve what they sold. Meanwhile, you find a board with nutrition's information in every McDonald's and advertisment praising the healthy and even slimming effects, Big Macs and French fries have got. They also sell orange juice and salads now, and nobody really has to have a bad conciousness anymore when eating in such a restaurant. We are even told that the meat only comes from British or European cows. With this campaign they hit the nail on the top in a society which is almost haunted by the ideal of a slim, healthy and well trained body. Less than ever, McDonald's has to worry about money to come in. People are easily to please. The big eating can go on. Fastfood? Yum!
