<ICLE-GE-AUG-0097.1>

It was one of these cold and grey winterdays in December, a few days before Christmas when I hurried through the city to get at least a few of the mountains of christmas presents I still had to buy. The streets were awfully crowded with people who were obviously in the same situation as I and it was hardly possible to set one foot into one of these shops which were specialised in selling some rubbish to those millions of poor souls who didn't have any idea of what to buy for the oh so beloved members of the family and friends.
So I wandered through the pedestrians' zone which was illuminated with some trashy christmas decoration and my "christmas mood" had reached its lowest point. Wasn't there a gargling inside my stomache? Yes, there was! It was not only the thousands of people in the streets who made me agressive, but a gnawing hunger which I had tried to forget during the last three hours. Of course there were several possibilities to appease it - especially now, at christmas time, but compared to one of those fabulous menues my mom used to prepare all this was rather unsatisfactory. Anyway, my mom was at home and I was in town and therefore I didn't have any choice. I had to be content with the food I was offered at the moment and I hoped to find out the best of it. So I queued for at least ten minutes to have a slice of vegetarian Pizza as a starter. Naturally this was not enough for a hunger as insatiable as mine. So I strolled to the "Christkindlesmarkt" where I queued again for at least 5 minutes to have a pair of tasteless, but too salty sausages in a roll which seemed to be from the day before. Still not full I longed for something sweet and creamy and therefore I went to the ice-cream parlour to have a scoop of my favourite flavour - blueberry cream. There I didn't have to queue. No wonder, it was December. After I had eaten this there was still a faint gargling, not as loud as before but it was. Unbelievable! I had already spent 15 DM just for different kinds of more or less tasty snacks and I still was not content. So I decided to make a last attempt to get my stomache filled and went to the Döner stall I considered to be the best in town. I had to queue "only" for 15 minutes but the food was worth it. Sappy chunks of grilled beef together with lots of spicy onions, crunchy lettuce and yogurt souce with the wonderful taste of garlic in a freshly baken, still warm small white bread with Sesam on top of it. After I had enjoyed it I was almost satisfied. In the end I always need some candy or a piece of cake or pie. Therefore I entered the MacDonald's restaurant on the corner and ordered - after another 10 minutes of queuing - a piece of apple pie.
When I sat there, still chewing my pie I noticed that I was already six o'clock, the shops will be closing in about five minutes and I still didn't have any present but I did spent 25 DM for a menue which didn't satisfy me at all.
So I took the tram back home where I began to prepare dinner.
