<ICLE-GE-AUG-0024.1>

I hear a baby who is screaming. What a piercing sound; but far away from reality. Firstly I think that's the last part of my dream, I turn around in my warm bed, laying down my head comfortably on my pillow. But the rumour is becoming more and more louder as if sitting in front of Big Ben whose clock is striking twelve o'clock second times in a row. My eyes begin to tremble, I raise my head, open my eyes and suddenly I'm quite awake: it's my telephone.
However, telephone has also brought a lot of advantages since it has been invented. If there is any kind of emergency it can help. It's useful for either injured people for whom the ambulance must be called, or for a family whose house is burning, or for the old man who had a heart attack. Furthermore the telephone offers the possibility to speak to anybody at any place in the world at any time. Both the Italian wife can speak to his husband who is doing research work in California for the period of half a year and the journalist can report about the latest incidents in the Gulf War by calling his German collegue.
But on the other side I can't help feeling more and more annoyed. Often you are called by people who want you to make an assurance, sometimes, especially during the night by a man who is drunk. I'm anxious about people who are calling me three times a week although I don't want to chat with them, and those who don't dial my number at all although I'm waiting. Who doesn't know the situations in which you are gazing at your telephone, waiting for an important call but it is not ringing. Or the other way round when I want to call my friend and there is no sound coming out of the receiver besides piep ... piep ... piep ...
Then I would like to throw away my lovely red telephone, like this early morning as it interrupted my dreams. Finally as I had decided to leave my bed, to stand up in order to take off the receiver, I heard the well-known voice of my mother saying: "Good morning, darling, I just wanted you to ask to recall me because I've got a new telephone and I can't wait to hear it's sound when it is ringing."
