<ICLE-GE-AUG-0046.1>

Toasters that tell you when your bread is crisp, alarm clocks that stop buzzing at the wink of an eye, and cars that inform your incompetent soul that the lights are still on. Yes, modern technology combined with the wit and ingenuity of eager young employees and a sense for what's important make it possible. The computers are becoming more like their creators every day. They can think like your wife, sound like your mother-in-law and replace man's best friend the dog as a source of entertainment. But how human are these qualities really?
Just how emotionally touching is the personalized computer junk mail you pull out of the box every morning: "Dear Mr. Ettel, this offer is especially for you ..." written in clean cursive, the replaceable name mysteriously darker in print than the rest of the letter. Thanks, but no Thanks. Worse than Junk Mail are computer written letters from friends - what was once an intimate hand-written piece of art is now a business-like, official looking piece of information printed with surgical precision on bleached white perforated paper. Of course the cute little images of clowns and hearts that can be added at random make up for everything entirely.
Let's face it computers are more efficient than we are. They are machines programed to do the same things as we humans do, only faster, better and with less noise. People are losing their jobs to computers faster than you can say "Megabyte". The unemployment rate is constantly on the rise the economy is going down the drain, but computers are now able to replace up to 50 people at a time. What a breakthrough! But then again they don't talk back, they don't take long coffee brakes and don't "borrow" office supplies.
More than one lonely office worker has established a humanlike relationship to his computer. It has a name, he buys expensive "extras" to keep it interresting when he works overtime, staring into the deep green writing on the screen. He talks to it, he even screams at it when it keeps secrets from him in form of a flashing "access denied" signal on the screen. Finally, at home, the father of two children is too tired to talk with his young ones, but they're busy anyway, playing "Mutant Turtles from outer space" on their Ninetendo Gameboy computer. Well, what comes around goes around.
If there is one saying that validates the fact that computers are indeed close to the species of homo sapiens it is definately: "to err is human". Computers may be efficient, but at the same time they are efficiently stupid as well.
After being billed twice for the same item I had bought, I found myself on the telephone with an employee who kept telling me: "the computer says so, the computer says so". No information as to where there could have been a misunderstanding, just the plain facts over and over again.
How often have I found myself dropping meticulously counted coins into a machine with an angrily blinking "exact change only" phrase on it, only to find out later (after reading the instruction manual on the side in small print) that a blinking sign means that the machine is out of order. So much for my learning experiences with a computer.
The most frightening contradiction between artificial intelligence and human incompetence has got to be the fact that the U.S. Government spends billions of dollars annually for the most advanced high-tech computerized and up-to-date missiles and stations them in the american mid west under the control of a U.S. Army member with a High School Diploma. What a combination.
Although computers can be programmed to resemble the human being in some ways, and may be able to think on their own someday, they still remain a box full of wires and no soul - a machine.
Computers are very human - NOT!
