<ICLE-GE-AUG-0073.1>

This opinion seems to be in many minds nowadays, but I'm absolutely convinced that the main part of Germans don't think that way. I personally think, that a multicultural population is of a great value for the country. In Germany live not only Turks, but also Greeks, Italians, Indians, Blacks, ... They all bring a part of their culture with them, not only by opening restaurants, but also by arranging folcloristic and ethnic events and parties. I remember one which took place last week in Marktoberdorf. About 200 Asylum seekers from Africa or India, who have to live in shanty and ugly barracks, had organized an open-air-concert, where they performed ethnic dances or typical African music like Reggae. Although the weather hadn't been too fine and heavy thunderstorms were forecasted, there came more than one thousand visiters from allover the Ostallgäu, and I'm sure they all were fascinated by this enourmous spectacle of sound, light and food. The foreigners offered Indian and African foodlike, chicken in curry-sauce or Döner Kebab. The whole spectacle had been an enormous success, and I'm sure that it was a great cultural enrichment for the town and even the whole land. No doubt, lots of people changed their minds about foreigners in Germany. But there are still some people who hold on to their prejudices about foreigners: they are considered to be dirty, criminal, violent, lazy, simply "different" from us Germans. Books like "Nicht ohne meine Tochter", which show a moslem husband, who beats his wife and his daughter, who doesn't allow her to leave the house, who forces her to have sex with him, support such prejudices, and this book had been a bestseller in Germany for nearly one year.
Unfortunatelly there were launched some unbelievably cruel attacks on foreigners allover Germany, mostly arranged by 15-08 year old Skinheads, dressed in their militairy trousers, Doc Marten's boots and their hair cut extremely short. One cannot deny that such racist people exist, but they are a minority. There are still lots of Germans who have never had or who have at least questioned their prejudices about foreigners - these people take and took place at the socalled "Lichterketten" - which were organized allover Germany, not only in huge cities like Munich or Berlin, but also in small towns or villages like Marktoberdorf or Füssen. These people want to express their empathy and sympathy with all foreigners and asylum seekers, they want to prove that not all Germans are racists or fashists.
To sum up, I'd like to say that foreigners are always welcome in Germany, at least by a majority of Germans.
