<ICLE-GE-AUG-0078.1>

I really must confess to the reader - right from the start - my hesitation to put pen to paper. I am endangered to enter difficult waters when I try to tell you about my opinion. I also humbly acknowledge my lack of academic credentials for this expedition and I hope not to drown like so many sophisticated professionals have done before.
Newspaper stands all over the country are filled with the headlines about the UN-mission in Somalia. And most editors express what many people think about this: we fear that they scate on very thin ice! Nobody really knows what the situation is like now where the Bundeswehr soldiers are. Everyday you hear about new terrible massacres, death sentences, public hangings, even be-headings, terrorists' attacks, etc. in Somalia. Somalia, so far, is far away from being peaceful or inviting and welcoming for any UN-soldier to come. But entering in this field and politics bristling over with cantankerous and porcupine-like critics it is very hard to bring about or talk about solutions. Politicians (from the government) all claim that Belet-Uen (that's where the Bundeswehr is stationed) would be peaceful, or better "free from guerillas". What a lie! They even can't distinguish between the peaceful Somalians and the obvious soldiers of General Aidid when they bomb whole areas - ghettos - in Mogadishu, without effect, only civilians suffer. The so-called "peaceful" mission in Somalia has to be discussed again. The Somalians seem to get more and more fed up with the UN, even the peaceful people, the atmosphere is changing from salvator to occupier. Can the UN justify an occupation? Isn't it the essential right of every country to decide for itself what kind of government it wants to have? If the Somalians vote for Aidid and the majority seems to, why are there still UN-troops then? Many critics now say, that it is a mission of humanity, to help the poor people, to feed the starving ones, to bring about peace. Since then nothing has changed, the situation in Somalia even became worse. And if people don't starve they're killed by UN-machine guns, handgranades, missiles, bombs of all kinds. Nobody could charge from me to be prepared to go on a peaceful UN-mission to Somalia as I have proved my point that the UN fails to fulfil their humanity duty there. Even in my function as Commander of the African Department of the Bundeswehr I must tell you about my opinion, that I would send no single soldier to Somalia as he risks his own life. The state's duty would it be to protect everybody's life as is provided in the constitution. I must pity, critizise and despise the government's attitude to this, but nevertheless pray for every soldier to come home alive again.
Yours faithfully General T. Hartmann Commander of the ADB 