<ICLE-GE-AUG-0044.1>

"The family is strong but fragile, like porcelain. It continues because, as a social and economic unit nothing works better. But we need to be certain we're doing as much as we can to help it flourish."
This point of view might be that of the Pope or of conservative politicians. You may consider it old-fashioned, but nervertheless it is worth thinking about it.
What does a modern German family look like? Recent surveys prove that 1/3 of all marriages in Germany end up after 7 years. In the cities even 50 percent of all couples are divorced. Frankfurt takes a leading position in this sad competition. As a consequence children are brought up without a father.
Next door to me lives a typical representative of this kind. An over-worked, pale lady is always looking for her vivid and naughty son, who plays cats and dogs with her, hiding in the elevator, the cellar, and the garage. His father is allowed to see his beloved boy twice a month, and then the little, stubborn devil is spoiled with scooters, skate boards, and TV-sets.
If you're a future teacher, it'll be your task to transform those kids who are not used to community, into tolerant and open-minded members of society. School has replaced the family as far as education is concerned, because it is often that even the mothers have to work full-time. My aunt has got a business of her own, which means that my young cousin is given 5 Marks a day to buy some junk food at McDonald's. In the afternoon, instead of doing his homework, he watches "Knight Rider" on TV and wastes his time with computer games.
Maybe a grand-mother could support her daughter in doing the house-work or looking after the weeping toddlers wetting their pants. Actually, nowadays the "senior citizens" lavish in old people's homes, grey and anonymous concrete blocks.
I've always admired the traditional big families, wives and husbands who don't split up, because they want to break free at all costs (even if their own children are the victims). I appreciate the hard work of my grand mothers and their generation building up the country after 1945 and besides raising 6 children. Their aim was not self-fulfilling individualism, but nourishing their hungry daughters and passing on values to their sons, like honesty and solidarity.
Of course, you may claim that is the task of the government to subside families and education, by spending more money on kindergardens, boarding schools, and playgrounds. I'd state that it is mainly up to you to help the family flourish as "the" social unit, and to get out of this vicious circle of divorce and abnormal behaviour of the children, which makes it difficult again for them to find a suitable partner for their future. If I happen to give birth to a baby one day I'm going to spend enough time during the first six years, in bringing it up, because afterwards school and friends have more influence and are more important than a well-meant advice from a caring and loving mother.
