<ICLE-GE-AUG-0047.1>

Haven't you heard about the Terminator yet? About this good-looking robot that drives cars and trucks, kills punks and policemen and ridicules law and order? It, a rather he, even is able with his highly intelligent computer brain to have an argument with kids, talk in sentences with at least two words and decide whether he should put on a happy or sour countenance. Or have you ever thought of computers like the one in "War Games"? This super-computer gets totally out of human control, fakes the whole world and initiates a further world war. So how could anyone deny the existence of human-like computers?
I myself have come across the way of thinking I described several times. In most cases I was successful in waking these people up and bringing their thoughts back on the ground again. I tried to make clear to them that those fantasies they believe in only exist in the dream world they're thinking in. Such people have to understand that they have to make a sharp cut between science fiction as it is described in films and reality.
In reality computers only do what human beings tell them to do. In firms, where computers increasingly are used, they are fed by employees with data and information and they help persons to stay the ruler over a vast variety of numbers and words. At the same time computers replace the typewriters in secretaries' bureaus in order to help them with text programmes, whether they have to write letters or manage conference meetings or whether they try to keep their busy bosses' plans in the right order.
True, there are tests of creating computers with so-called intelligent brains. Such machines should automatically solve the problemes with the repairing of satellites if they've had a breakdown high up in the sky. Inserted in strange metallic figures, called robots, they should enable them to notice obstacles and go round it - but that's it! All the things what these intelligent computers are to do have to be programmed beforehand. Even the computers that should run the automation in car-manufacturing companies can't avoid the need of human beings on the whole. If there happens to be someting unpredictable like a tiny little screw put at the wrong place the whole system breaks down.
Trying to make computers intelligent is one side of the never-ending technical efforts to imitate human behaviour. What we haven't mentioned yet is the whole field concerning feelings. There is endeavor to learn computers feelings like sorrow, pain, love and happiness. But this can be reduced to a mere hokuspokus or clown show of scientists engaged in ridiculing themselves. In Japan they recently said that their computer could show love feelings. The only thing the machine did when meeting a human person was to indicate a heart and the sentence "I love you" on the display. Finally it had a breakdown when two people came next to it. So we can surely say that human intelligence and feelings will never be realised in computer technology. You can tell those people believing in films with human computers that they aren't and never will come true!
