<ICLE-GE-AUG-0026.1>

One hundred years ago life was still different. The streets weren't crowded with stinking and roaring cars and if you looked up to the sky there were twittering and tweeting birds flying above you instead of noisy airplanes and frightening tornados. People didn't live in high-rise buildings in which the appartments have the size of a mousetrap, but are full of machines from the electric tooth brush to the fully automatic tin-opener. Things like satellites or computers didn't even come to their minds at that time. But the most important difference is that people formerly had to stand face to face to the person they wanted to talk to. The invention of the telephone changed our lives fundamentally. Today everyone just has got one and uses it as a normal means of communication. Or do you think about this technical miracle when you call your friend to invite him for a nice dinner for two?
The telephone really changed our lives and we can be grateful about it. When your Grandma has got a heart attack in the middle of the night you can call the ambulance and they will be here in a few minutes. When you observe burglars breaking into your neighbour's house you can call the police and they will also be there in a few minutes. Besides that the telephone is the best medium to pass information quickly. If it is a report on a political event or a warning about a coming hurricane, if it is some news about a war in a foreign country or the latest information on the flood catastrophy in China, life cannot be imagined without this prompt reporting any more. What makes it possible is the telephone.
But even in private life the telephone makes everything easier. Instead of writing a five-page-letter to your brother in San Francisco, waiting four weeks for the answer, where he writes that he didn't really understand what you wanted to ask him, you can just go to this machine, that isn't bigger than a shoe-box, press a certain sequence of buttons and then - hope that your brother is at home. You can have a chat with him as if he would be sitting next to you.
The most striking advantag of the telephone however isn't that you can talk to people in Sibiria or Australia, but that you can talk to all of your friends at every time of the day, or even the night, without wearing pretty clothes, putting your make-up on and having to leave your beloved sofa. For me there's no better way of spending a rainy day than by calling my two best friends. I'm lying on my bed, a pot of tea and a plate of biscuits are next to me and we're talking about all the crucially important things that happened the last 24 hours. "Do you think that Peter wants to go out with Mary?" "I can't really imagine, but we'll see this evening." "Oh my God, I don't know what to put on. Do you think that my black skirt and the green t-shirt would be all right?" The only problem is the endlessly mumbling and grumbling father.
I must admit that it is sometimes very strange not to see the person whom you are talking to. Perhaps she's telling me as many lies as I do. But I can't be so honest and tell her that she really looks like a witch in her new dress. So I'm quite lucky that telephones with screens aren't common yet. For the moment we can still concentrate if we should choose the Mickey Mouse model, the model "1900", the model in future design the latest model called "Super-tel" with 23 (!) additional functions.
