<ICLE-GE-AUG-0060.1>

"The more I get to know of people, the more I like my dog!"
Never before I've been more shocked than yesterday when my friend confronted me with this, in my eyes strange opinion. What did she mean by it? She explained that people always disappointed her and that with her dog she never had any of the problems which she had with other people. Sure, a dog comes up to you when you arrive at home, jumps into your arms, because he's glad that you're back and all you have to do to satisfy him is giving him a big, fleshy sausage or taking him for a long walk through the woods. But is it really enough to have somebody around who you can hug and kiss, who does whatever you want him to do, even fetching your newspaper from in front of the door? Isn't it boring to look into these big, brown eyes, who always look as honest as in every situation and who never show any signs of emotion? And not to forget the problems that with no doubt arise when you are the proud owner of a dog: You will have to clean the kitchen floor when your dog has been too lazy to do his "important task" outside, you're responsible for his education and you have to show him that the postman isn't always the enemy that it means to bark (or bite!) away. And what is even more important than all the rest is the conversation. How good would a conversation be if you have it with a dog? He will neither be able to discuss or solve your problems or will he be loyal enough to tell you that you were absolutely right when you called your arrogant neighbour a bastard! That means that you need people, however disappointing your experiences have already been. If you've told a secret to a so-called friend and he had nothing else to do but run to some other people and tell them about it, than you can surely live better without such friends. But if you try to get to know the shy, quiet boy who never says a word or the loud, hysterical women of appartement B2 who always seems to do some esoteric exercises, then you'd probably be surprised how interesting it can be to get to know more of people and perhaps both of you could go for a walk with your dog next time!
