<ICLE-GE-AUG-0027.1>

"Traffic accident causes five people's death". Such headlines are very common in daily newspapers. Almost every morning when I start reading the "Memminger Zeitung" while having breakfast, some horrible, but realistic photos of car accidents catch my eye. Totally damaged cars, or what is being left of them, heaps of shattered glass, puddles of blood on the road and five badly injured, dead bodies lying in or in front of the involved cars. The life of five innocent people has been destroyed in a few seconds, although it was in full tide.
What's the reason for cutting of somebody's life in such an abrupt and horrible way and for turning me into somebody who has to run into the bathroom in order to vomit? It's too high speed as always when such accidents happen on German motorways. Some unresponsible road-hog wanted to know how fast his car is and to enjoy the feeling of high speed. Shouldn't be there a speed limit on German motorways in order to avoid such photos in future?
The problem of introducing a speed limit is discussed almost once a year. But what is done is in fact nothing, although the newspapers are full of articles reporting about the increasing rate of car accidents caused by too high speed. Why do politicians and parts of the German population hesitate to introduce a speed limit? One reason is that the automobile industry encourages the road-hogs to drive as fast as possible, as they produce cars which can reach a speed of almost 250 km per hour. Our world is crazy: everybody does not like such horrifying pictures, but they are not willing to drive slowlier as their idols are formula-0 drivers. Driving on the motorway is like a play with the death: If you drive 120 km per hour, everybody overtakes you without regarding the other cars on the motorway, the overtaker makes use of his horn and his lights. Driving on a motorway is a kind of psycho-terror and the best detective story is boring in contrast to that. Poor motorist who tries to drive not too fast!
Some people are so much used to driving quickly that they are not able and even not willing to reduce speed as they enjoy trying what speed the car is able to reach. Those people cannot be changed unless they have to pay for driving like fools. It's not only cars that are driven too fast, but lorries as well, often the lorry-drivers are even worse. But sometimes it's not their own fault: Their boss has told them to deliver the freight as soon as possible. If I go by car on a motorway, I'm often overtaken by some lorries. It seems that every lorry-driver wants to be the "king of the road" concerning speed. Lorry-drivers often compete with each other, "who'll be the quickest"? Even students or workers sometimes have to drive by high speed, as they are late for work for several reasons, e.g. not having heard the alarm-clock and therefore having got up too late. But the attitude of "it doesn't matter I drive 200 km per hour" could and should be changed.
The introduction of a speed limit would have a lot of advantages, not only for us, but as well for our environment. It's not only that lifes could be saved, but that pollution and the horrifying reduction of the ozon layer could be reduced by introducing a speed limit. Why shouldn't it work in Germany? Other European countries do already have a speed limit and it's proved by statistics that the rate of accidents decreased.
So, if you don't want to be the next victim of a car accident and if you like to enjoy your life for some years longer: Please, take your foot from the speed pedal!
