<ICLE-GE-AUG-0095.1>

Today this word can be seen on nearly every single article in the supermarket and it either means that the package is recycleable, or, still more typically that it doesn't hurt our environment. And this is what people nowadays really try to recreate - a clean, sober, rubbish-free environment with clear air and healthy rivers, forests and lakes. It broke out like a cleaning-mania, a movement that is whizzing past the cities like a huge wave that is unable to be stopped. Last week I had one of these little gossips about the humdrum of everyday life with my neighbour. It all started really friendly until he asked why we wouldn't collect our yoghurt tins and bring them to the new collecting office in our town, like he did it. As naive as I was I told him of my opinion of this being useless extra work and so the malaise began. I was assailed to be a destroyer of our world, he accused me of being an egoist and an utilitarian. He told me of all his "environmentally friendly" activities: he never uses a plastic bag for shopping again and he always takes plastic boxes for the meat and sausage with him; he really makes accurate and meticulous distinction between natural rubbish, plastic things, metallic things, cans, paper, styropor, glass, ... and brings it to the responsible persons or containers. He doesn't buy milk from the supermarket any more, he fetches it from the farmer round the corner within a special milk can that's still reminding him of his grand-mother. He has sold his car and now he uses his bicycle or public means of traffic like the bus and he would feel so much happier now. When I managed to stop his flood of words that made me feel like the only man on earth being really bad and treating my environment formidably and awfully, I stood staring at him and bellowed out of the blue "Nature cure crack, you've really gone mad!" Then I turned round and got into my house and since this day we've never spoken a single word again with each other. Yes, it's really true, "environmentally friendly" is the new password of today that can destroy every friendship.
