<ICLE-GE-AUG-0052.1>

Even though Augsburg is a comparatively small city it still has a lot to offer.
For one thing it is a city which very much appeals to the eye and when one is strolling through the streets one's eye is almost always caught by something that one hasn't noticed before, be it a small, delicately carved bronze figure or a fountain in someone's back yard, a narrow path between two houses or ivy creeping up a white stone wall, working its way all around the house, embracing it lovingly. It is little things like that that convey the special flair that Augsburg has aside from the atmosphere that is created by refinished facades and generously designed pedestrian zones and street cafés.
There is more to Augsburg than buildings because there is a lot going on inside of them. Augsburg has a rich cultural program, a wide selection of events ranging from very serious and traditional theatre plays, classic operas and musicals to concerts of the alternative music scene. There, one has a choice of Punk, Funk, New Wave, Hard Rock and Heavy Metal as well as Reggae, Country Music and Jazz. As different as the music styles are, so are the people and the pubs they frequent. There is a stimulating variety of characters, including everything from the well-kempt, dressed-up and conceited yuppie to the down-to-earth müsli-eater in baggy pants and hand-knitted sweaters, wearing Birkenstocks.
What can also be very exciting is to try out all the different restaurants, there are in Augsburg. There one is being served everything from traditional german dishes with thick gravies and dumplings to greek, turkish, italian or chinese foods to more exotic varieties such as japanese sushi, indian rice, or arabian couscous.
Augsburg not only offers pleasures to one's taste buds but the many sports facilities help one to make good use of one's spare time. It is wonderful to choose from a selection of tennis, squash, badminton and basketball courts, running tracks and swimming pools, horseback riding western style to kayaking in the Eiskanal just to mention a few.
In Augsburg, there is always something to do, even if it is just taking advantage of watching movies shown in the original version. There is a vast array of possibilities of what to do, one just has to pick out one and enjoy oneself - because after all, life in Augsburg can be very exciting.
