<ICLE-GE-AUG-0072.1>

Nowadays, it seems as if foreigners are no longer welcome in Germany. They are attacked in public and nobody does anything against it. People even applaude skinheads during their attacks. TV stations were broadcasting the horryfying pictures from Hoyerswerda: militants breaking windows, throwing Molotow cocktails; "normal" German citizens applauding, heating the attackers up, and making the Nazi greeting, stretching the arm with pride high into the air. Nobody cares about the pale, frightened faces at the windows of the burning houses, nobody cares whether the people closed in can escape or not and nobody thinks about their feelings and thoughts. It's as if a big, wild animal has escaped from it's cage. The attacking people have lost control over themselves and behave like animals. All the innert suspicions and anger come out. There is no doubt, people in Germany are more suspicious against foreigners as they used to be. Knowing a foreigner had used to be an interesting and extraordinary thing but now people avoid extremely to get in contact with a foreigner. I remember one scene in the tram when a Turkish woman sat down on the last free place beside an old woman. The old woman stood up all at once, murmuring something undistinguishable, hurried to the front of the tram and stood there all of the time although one could see it was not easy for her to stand upright for so long. People hardly can stand sitting next to a foreigner, so how can they even stand living with them? How can they understand the feelings a human being has during such attacks as at Hoyerswerda?
Even the government is not used to humanity any longer as shows the new asylum law. They think they have solved their problems in German, e.g. increasing rassism by restricting asylum permission. But what they have not realized is that the problem is a world-wide one and that they once could come to the point where they need asylum in another country and then they are foreigners, too.
Everybody is a foreigner everywhere! That should always be remembered!
