<ICLE-GE-AUG-0012.1>

In our age of "motorized perfectness" nearly everybody aged at least 18 seems to own a car. The question is if in the long run this vehicle means "messiah or monster" for both environment and individual.
The Joneses next door ever since wanted to represent the upper class. Father goes to work with a big white BMW. The twins, called Jeff and Jack, and recently 18 years old, received two red "Austin-minis" as a very original birthday present! Mother, a trendy and up-to-date housewife goes to town nearly every day for shopping reasons, or to attend her "jazzercise" lessons three times a week. She considers herself an expert in the local parking houses and is on familiar terms with all filling-stationers in town. But the latest fashion of mountain-bikes left all members unimpressed. Never ever could they do without their cars!
That's what differs them so much from the Colbys, living in a semi-detached house nearby the Joneses. Mr Colby is a convinced member of the Green Economic Party as well as a committed cyclist.
Mrs Colby is on familiar terms with her neighbours; they own a big combi-transporter and regularly arrange to go to the shopping centre together. The three children go to school by bike as well, and as a matter of fact they were the outstanding winners of the school's athletic games - and deeply envied by the Joneses' twins.
Going to town, the whole family makes use of the means of public transport for both leisure reasons and work.
I shouldn't forget to mention that the Colbys do own a car, but it is only used in "emergency cases" - when father's bike had a puncture or an urgent date shouldn't be missed at all. But in daily life, the Colbys can easily do without a car!
Mr Colby is also very engaged in community life, and yesterday he held a speech in front of the town council about how to improve the public transport system. He also mentioned, that real life should be balanced in the middle of extremes, but considering the accident statistics and of course the urgent environmental situation, it depends on the individual to use cars in a responsible way. If so, the uncountable flood of cars in our motorized society could at least be reduced if not completely banned.
