<ICLE-PO-UCS-0013.1>

	Television has not been with us for a long time, but we are already starting to forget what our life was like without it. We used to do a lot of exciting things, we had a great number of wonderful ideas how to occupy our spare time and we never found it difficult to live without television.
	Some time ago we used to enjoy various kinds of entertainment, we would have hobbies, go outside to theatres, cinemas, restaurants and sport events. It is hard to imagine but we even used to read books and listen to music. Now, instead of going out and socializing we prefer sitting at home and being isolated from the external world. Television makes us the prisioners of our own homes. All our leisure time is controlled by "this monster". People can not even eat their meals in peace and together with the whole family because some of the members rush in order to be in time for this or that programme. Television remains a very demanding, time-consuming pleasure.
	What is more, this civilised pleasure demands complete silence and attention. So when some member of the family swears to open his mouth and say something during a very fascinating programme, he or she is immediately rendered harmless.
	Whole generations are brought up by television. Especially young people get addicted to it extremely fast. They often do not sleep, do their homeworks, but neglect school and social relationships. It is television that becomes their best friend, they no longer need the company of other teenagers. Moreover, children, when left in front of a TV-set on their own by their parents, are very much exposed to the spectacles of violence and the scenes of sex.
	Another very important argument against television is that it limits our creativity. It doesn't really matter that the quality of a wide spectrum of programmes is bad, we still watch them any way.
	What is more, television encourages passive enjoyment. We become intesely lazy, it is so pleasant to sit in our armchairs for hours watching others working. And in this way "our monster" cuts us off from the real life. The fact is that we choose to spend a really fine day at home instead of going out and taking some physical exercise.
	And finally, television causes that we are not able to communicate with each other any longer. We choose to sit in front of our TV-set in complete silence rather than talk about problems surrounding us.
	But we can mention several argument in favour of television as well.
	The most important one is that nobody imposes it on you. You are equipped with your free mind and if you don't like TV, you simply do not turn it on.
	The next important advantage of television is that it enables us to be witnesses of creating the present history. You watch TV because you must be well-informed, you want to have access to the most powerful source of information. Television offers a lot. It makes it possible to take part in such important events as the Olympic Games, political events and great entertainments.
	What is more, television creates enormous possibilities for education. It proposes a whole range of educational programmes, in almost every field of science. Thanks to television you may also master your language skills. In this field we, as the learners of foreign languages, owe TV a lot.
	Another thing is that it encourages real art to be created. Although one may say that a wide variety of TV productions are made only for the commercial purposes, there are, however, numerous programmes of the higher lever, the rays of art with the big "A". Television continues very good tradition of theatre productions of classical plays and thanks to it many directors, actors have the chance to perfect their creative talents and to popularize drama among wider groups of audience.
	All things considered, one must be very careful when dealing with such a complex subject as television. I am sure that a lot may be said about it: both good and bad points may be found but on the whole it does not really matter. You can notice advantages and disadvantages of almost every item you care to name. One important thing is that one should use TV with moderation, otherwise it may become a dangerous "monster".
