<ICLE-PO-UCS-0005.1>

Before 1989 we had known only one kind of commerce: small shops in which you could hardly find anything to buy. We had not known that there might be more brands of coffee than just one, imported from the USSR. However, with the collapse of the communist regime this established situation changed rapidly. People would take advantage of economic freedom as well as of the gaps in regulations and would open shops. This tendency was very good for the state of the national economy. Small family enterprises absorbed those people who were made redundant as a result of large-scale cutbacks. They also stimulated people's initiative and largely contributed to the economic growth.
	Nowadays the market is glut with small stores. Therefore, the new ones have to lower prices artificially to attract customers, which is of course self-destructive in longer perspective. The competition becomes stronger and more ruthless - shop-keepers cheat either customers or tax-collectors (and most frequently both). What matters now is the price and some buyers are even ready to run to the other part of the city to save a bit.
	It may be useful to quote the economic calculation of both the large and small enterprises. Strangely enough, what is good for individuals is bad for the state. Big supermarkets are extremely effective in making large profits with relatively low costs. They offer low prices and a great variety of goods, the factors that are essential for ordinary buyers. However, at the same time they eliminate small shops that do not have so much capital and are not competitive enough. As a result, unemployment is increased and the tempo of economic growth is slowed down.
	The economic calculation quoted above seems to favour small-scale commerce. The personal calculation of each customer is diametrically different. Apart from low prices, supermarkets offer also a wide range of goods and kinds of the same product grouped under one roof. Also, customers have much easier access to goods than in small stores, which is very important for many of them. All these factors constitute the unimaginable comfort of doing shopping in huge shops, which is one of the most important advantages of this type of commerce.
	As is proved by the statistics, people try to spend their money as effective as possible, buying cheaply in huge places. As much as 90% of all customers share this attitude. This tiny 10% is mostly old conservative persons who find it difficult to adapt themselves to the new reality and look suspiciously at all novelties.
	Amazed and fascinated by colourful wrappings and unbelievably low prices, we are not aware of the fact that big supermarkets are the worst thieves of our money. Advertisements persuade us to buy things we do not really need. They force their way to our subconscious so that, willingly or not, we buy advertised products only because we have heard them to be better than others. The whole teams of psychologists and sociologists, studying human responses to different stimuli, invent various tricks to ensure customers that they get good value for money (when in fact they do not). All kinds of promotions, extra gifts, package purchases are just clever ways of making profit by cheating people.
	In small traditional shops one cannot come across such improbably good bargains as at Hit or Leclerc, but one can at least enjoy his independence. After all, he may buy what he really needs and not what the business tycoons want to get rid of.
	It is interesting to analyse the actual relations between large- and small-scale business. The owners of small shops feel threatened by giant enterprises. They rightly assume that eventually they stop making profits as a result of the unfair competition. They fear that the big business would try to monopolise some areas of the market using the advantage of great capital.
	Of course small firms do not just wait passively for what would happen next. They are not going to accept the conditions set by giant corporations. Therefore they organise themselves into unions whose purpose is to defend their common interests, to fight monopolistic actions and to help one another to survive in the market.
	The fight between these two totally different approaches to trade reminds vividly that between David and Goliath. Huge companies do not treat little ones seriously, being sure of their own firm position and of the superiority of wholesale over retail sale. On the other hand, small firms realise that only by a fierce struggle they can defend their position and save jobs of thousands of employees. They already do their best to be more competitive: they cut down unnecessary additional charges or try to eliminate middlemen. Luckily, customers would decide which one of the two types of trade should remain in the market.
	As can be noticed, the two opposite approaches - small family shops and giant supermarkets - have very little in common. The relations between them cannot be much better than an open war because to survive they need to take over the enemy's share of the market. The main problem is that they both compete for the same circle of clients and there is no other way out of this problem except for close co-operation and fair competition of both sides.
	At present there is only one side which really benefits from this struggle: we customers. We can feel the power of our money and choose stores that offer the most favourable conditions. We have learnt how to do shopping in a reasonable way or how to pay attention to the best-before dates. The great variety of shops has made our lives much easier. Both small and large ones are necessary and in some respects more useful than others. Which one to choose depends only on us - the free choice is one of the greatest benefits of market economy.
