<ICLE-PO-UCS-0011.1>

	A cyberdoc is the name of a phenomenon which is inevitably spreading among Americans and gaining more and more supporters. It is widely known that the word 'doc' is short for 'doctor' and the prefix 'cyber' suggests that the thing will be connected with computers, especially with sending messages on the Internet. The phenomenon proves that another sphere of our life is being invaded by computers, which is an inevitable trend with technology apparently getting out of control. That is obvious that computers cannot replace conventional medicine, but Americans are quietly remaking their medicine. Aided by doc-in-a-box software programs and by online databases, they are managing their own health in ways that were recently unimaginable. The new tools are of course meant to supplement standard medical care, not replace it. But their role in the health system can only grow, for they are improving people's lives even while reducing their medical bills. Needless to say, this unconventional medical care is bound to have its advantages as well as disadvantages. Let us try first to pinpoint some obvious good sides.
	The first advantage is that such a digital medical program will answer all your questions and will make your doubts vanish. Majority of cancer patients feel confused and isolated after having been stricken. They found themselves alone, taking some noxious hormones or undergoing chemotherapies devastating their organisms, or nursing some painful wounds from, for instance, a radical mastectomy. Frequently, such people do not know anything about cancer and do not even know what questions to ask. This however may change with a personal computer being set up in such people's houses and linking them to a special network which will answer their questions.
Secondly, the computer will put them in touch with scores of fellow patients suffering from the same diseases, helping those people to stop feeling isolated and abandoned.
Another advantage is the round-the-clock access to a library of medical information as well as the fact that "the doc-in-a box" will devote you as much time as you only wish and not just ten or fifteen minutes.
	Besides, with the computer you may ask questions you would be too embarrassed and ashamed to ask a doctor. This seems to be one of main advantages of the medical care in question. It happens very often that people are ashamed of some embarrassing symptoms and they feel awkward having to reveal them to a stranger. Sometimes they hide some embarrassing symptoms, reveal them partially or simply do not visit a doctor being so paralysed by their shame. It is being observed that patients are much more comfortable talking with the computer than they are with their own doctors. As you would expect, people feel freer to detail their sex practices or drug habits when the interrogator is a machine. That is natural since computers like any other machines are nonjudgmental, which means they do not think and do not make judgements about people who consult them. That encourages people since when they suffer from some embarrassing disease and have to visit a doctor, the thing they are most afraid of is the fact they do not know what the doctor will think about them. They are afraid of doctor's sight because they feel as if they were being humiliated.
	Besides being nonjudgmental, computers are less biassed, if at all, than doctors. A man suffering from, for instance, prostate cancer may get radically different pieces of advice from three different urologists. The reason why there are such considerable differences among doctors is the fact that like all people, doctors tend to be subjective and are influenced by a number of factors, very frequently irrational and personal, that make them prefer one treatment to another. But by sitting down with one of those medical software programs, one is sure to obtain an impartial and objective assessment of one's case, not to mention the fact that having answered a series of questions asked by computer you are provided with a list of possible treatments you may follow, together with a detailed register of good and bad sides of each treatment.
	Incredible as it may seem, the phenomenon is bound to have some self-evident disadvantages.
	Firstly, one must be dazzled by the novelty of the phenomenon if one does not seem to show the awareness of the liability dangers connected with people's own management of their health. Patients appear to ignore the instructions of manufacturers who incessantly stress that their products are intended as educational tools and not as do-it-yourself diagnostic kits. It should be natural that before deciding on one of treatments suggested by computer you should visit a doctor and ask him for his opinion and assessment of the computer's suggestions. One should never dismiss doctor's advice as untrustworthy. It is vital that one should realise that the choice of treatment from a whole range of possible ones may depend on some specialistic tests that must be carried out before the final decision (such as blood tests etc.) and undoubtedly, your computer is not capable of performing it.
	On the whole, the effect that may ensue seems to be decisively dubious. I would dare to say that the thing is likely to cause more harm and troubles than it may apparently seem. What should be advised to potential users of such programs is a good deal of moderation and caution.
