<ICLE-PO-UCS-0012.1>

	It is not unusual to hear students complain about the amount of books they have to read for their classes. It is very easy to get an impression that the obligatory reading list is what they despise most. They try to put off the moment they will have to go through one of the obligatory items as long as possible. Most students try to read a 300 pages long book during one night. And the result is rather unsatisfactory because in the morning they can hardly remember the names of the characters. What makes students and people in general so unwilling to read books? I think that the key word to this problem is 'classic'.
	Classic is a book or any work of art that is regarded as being a very fine example of its type and having lasting importance. But it so happens that for some people it has only a pejorative meaning, they can give strange equivalents of the word 'classic' such as boring, uninteresting, time wasting etc, which may seem very shocking for book lovers. Such attitude towards classics is characteristic of uneducated people. The fact is that in our society the number of book readers is decreasing and as you cannot get education without books the circle goes round.
	The painful thing is that these are mainly old people who are book addicts and the number of young people who regularly read books dwindles. For a modern man whose actions are money motivated it is enough to read a daily newspaper and a bridged version of a well-known novel to regard oneself as a well educated person with great expectations.
	But those who were lucky enough to get to know the ethernal verity classics along with their charm and magic can only be sorry for those who feel satisfied with the bridged versions. Those people are in a way mentally inefficient because they know who Shakespear was but they have not the slightest idea where the roots of his popularity are and what is so special about him.
	Observing the growing number of bridged versions and those who consider them a real blessing it is easy to draw a conclusion that classics reading is already antiquated.
	However, it is very unlikely that classics will soon be forgotten. There are still plenty of die-hard readers who know perfectly well that classics cannot be replaced by newspapers, harlequins or shortened versions. There are still parents who can appreciate the value of classics and try to bring up their children aware of it. Also teachers play a very crucial role in persuading their students that the word 'classic' should be an encouragement to get to know such books.
	We cannot say that classics are underestimated in our society, along with the number of bridged versions the number of unbridged publications also increases. And there are always people who are ready to pay any amount of money to enlarge their private library with some new items.
	It is true that classics have lasting value, there is no possibility to forget that they lie at the base of our education. They let us expand our horizons and give a new insight into the world and its rules. Although, there are people who cannot appreciate their real value, those who can will not let it be forgotten. No matter how many bridged versions are yet to be published they will never replace the original text.
