<ICLE-PO-UCS-0010.1>

	In our times, the number of very young people who decide to marry seems to be on the increase. They are usually determined by some rather unavoidable necessity. Namely, the main reason for marrying young is very often not hot, passionate love between two teenagers but the simple fact that they are going to have a baby. Thus, in most cases this is the unwanted and unexpected pregnancy that leads to the marriage of young people. And that is why I am strongly against marrying young.
	The consequences of such a decision are quickly visible and they are not so happy as we could expect them to be. The main factor behind such a situation is the fact that teenagers are not as mature as they would like to be in the eyes of the world. Usually, they are simply children themselves. As a result, such emotionally immature and inexperienced children are forced to bring up their own baby and they have to deal with everyday problems. Suddenly, they have to play the roles of mother and father, as well as these of wife and husband, or it would be better to say - they have to learn quickly how to play these roles. This situation frightens and overpowers them and the by-product of it is increasing unhappiness, disappointment and bitterness.
	Sometimes the situation of such a young couple is even much worse when they can not bank on help of their parents and other close relatives. Nowadays, it is quite a common phenomenon that the family of young people is not very eager to help. Sometimes they even disown such a young couple. In this situation young people have to depend on themselves. They are forced to be careful of every penny they spend and they hardly keep their heads above water.
	Of course, the unexpected pregnancy is not the only reason for marrying young. Sometimes such a decision is also influenced by the fact that teenagers do really love each other and they feel very mature. They want to live on their own, in their own house for the simple reason that they are no longer happy living with their parents under the same roof. Young people want to become independent as soon as possible, since they have already been bored with constant "good pieces of advice" from their parents, with their permanent warning against everybody and everything.
	I have to admit that these couples often lead a very happy life. However, the majority of young marriages turns out to be a complete disaster for the simple reason that they represent the first example I have mentioned above.
	Young people very often realize that their marriage has always been an awful mistake, but unfortunately it is usually too late. That is why I am strongly against marrying in haste.
