<ICLE-PO-POZ-0039.1>

The tremendous achievements in science and technology have entered the world of modern medicine. Sophisticated equipment unables doctors to save the lives of patients who would have died if they had lived a few decades ago. Nowadays prematurely born babies survive thanks to incubators and people with kidney defects are kept alive thanks to machines that clean their blood. A logical temptation, though, would be to attribute all successes in medicine to science and technology. This however wouldn't be true for a very simple reason: doctors are not only technicians. Their patients are also complicated much more than machines.
In dealing with human beings, doctors realize how much their feelings, emotions and other spiritual powers influence every stage of the treatment. People are creatures who, at least, need to know that their phisicians do care about them. Therefore, the attitude of the doctors towards their patients is very important. Through showing care and attention, a doctor may give a patient the feeling of safety and comfort. These factors are something most people look for when they entrust themselves to their doctors. Although they don't always change the effects of the treatment, they can definitely help in its success. If it was just technology working to cure our bodies, our spirits wouldn't be so powerful.
In the book "Doctors talk about themselves", there appears: <*>. The doctor tried to stress here how much depends on whether a person develops a positive or a negative attitude towards a treatment and life in general. In extreme cases it may determine whether a patient will live or die. For instance, there was the case of a boy who had a cancer and bravely fought in the disease until he broke down after the death of his friend with whom he was going through chemotherapy. After his decision not to live any more the end came very quickly. Other statements from the book include: <*>.
Another feature which makes the doctor's job different from that of technicians is the uncertainty of their work. The causes of diseases may remain unknown, the diagnosis may fail, an autopsy may not reveal the reason of death. Doctors are not superhumans, although they are often looked up to. Often they must tolerate the feeling of helplessness. The wise saying goes "Doctor, heal thyself'" It shows that doctors aren't almighty and that the use of technology is not enough in the curing process. A human being has many aspects and human body is only one of them.
Finally, a very trivial truth must be realized. Doctors are people themselves and nothing shields them from their own emotions, problems or the feelings that some patients arouse in them. Some of them feel grief for the people in their charge. They feel joy when some patients who were to die, survive and become healthy again. Some of them pray before an operation, like the neuro-surgeon who confessed "Things can go wrong. Operating on a brain is not like taking a car motor apart. There, if you strip a bolt, you can get another one. Here you deal with the most delicate tissues. I'm on the edge when I realize that one mistake means my patient won't survive."
To save people's lives is a beautiful job. However, this job isn't devoided of stress and nonmedical problems. Doctors and patients are affected by the suffering they see. The first ones must be more than technicians, whereas the other ones are more than machines. Humans are so complex, that a lot remains unknown to us, and we feel very uncomfortable about these mysteries. As one doctor stated "We are just scratching the surface of what human life is all about."
