<ICLE-PO-POZ-0033.2>

<*> sang once William Derek Dick, a Scottish singer and poet, expressing his confusion and disappointment with reality that surrounded him. True, the tones of information that we get every day may usually confuse us, rather than clarify the things that we are unsure of. This may, in turn, lead us to the well known conclusion that we know nothing. Somehow, however, it seems reasonable to think that getting information about the world, reading being only one possible means to achieve this, may make us, and many a time does make us wiser and thus more human.
It is a common stereotype that people who read more are more sophisticated, more intelligent and have a wider view of the world. And I must agree that, whether we read a newspaper to learn about what happened yesterday or a precious novel to learn about somebody else's fantasies, we know we are not alone as we learn more about others and thus we are more conscious about what is going on in the world. This surely makes us less self-centered, more humble and probably even wiser.
When we take a morning paper we learn much about reality, about what has happened to somebody else. In this way we can place ourselves easier in this great mess which is called "the world". We grasp other people's opinions and, whether we agree with them or not, this surely serves an educational purpose - it widens our view of the world. We learn more about people from their adds, we make use of doctors' and scientists' advice, and we get to know famous politicians, actors and, what is even more important, valuable but unknown people, from the profiles in magazines.
Books are also very helpful in this respect. Non-fiction volumes sometimes let us know somebody's opinions and help us realize that we are not alone in our thinking and perception of the world as we learn that there is someone out there who thinks in the same way we do and who has come up with the same or similar ideas. This may, of course, mean that our thinking is not by all means original, but it may be very helpful to know that we are not alone. Fiction, on the other hand, is often considered to be a record of things that are unreal and simply not true. But it is often reality that is the source of inspiration for fiction writers and their imagination sometimes only helps them put the little pieces of their own experience together. In this way we learn so much about themselves. But so much more can be learnt from fiction writing. By reading we enter the realm of imagination and dreams, and as a creation of a human mind, they are also real, they also tell the story of human race.
And whether we find other people's lives, their opinions and dreams totally surprising or so similar to ours, they DO tell us more about others, their hearts and their souls. We know that we are not alone and this probably makes us more worthy and certainly more aware.
