<ICLE-PO-POZ-0008.2>

Someone who goes to stay in a foreign country, no matter if it is for a short time or forever, passes through several stages of culture shock. If the stay is short, the person mover quickly through the stages; is the stay is long, the stages last longer. However, to get accustomed to some new culture, one has to go through the adjustment cycle, which is usually a very painful experience, due to the travellers' great expectations and what really the new country offers.
Indeed, before the travellers leave home, they form ideas and images what life in the new place will be like. They imagine themselves into the new way of living and they make big plans about their future. Because they usually tend to perceive the country they go to as better developed, more interesting and easier to live in - which is most often the case with the Eastern Europeans travelling to the West - they think about their future in a very optimistic way.
However, when they finally reach their destination, the place never is as perfect as they imagined, people are never as nice as they expected, and the travellers are not so happy as they thought they would. The first stage of culture shock then is the confrontation of the travellers' expectations and the reality. One has to adjust one's dreams or/and plans to what is possible, sometimes having to change them completely. This stage, however, although painful and absolutely unexpected, does not usually get  the travellers stunned. They still feel pretty sure and think positive about the future, as the newness of the place and culture fascinates them, no matter how different it is from what they expected.
Yet, any novelty stops being a novelty at some point, and sooner or later the travellers find themselves bored with the place they live in and the people they encounter everyday. After they have visited all the places worth visiting and after they have seen everything worth seeing, their lives become as mundane and they used to be in their native country. Thus, they go through the second stage of cultural shock when they come to realise the foreign country is not a lost paradise but a very earth-like affair.
This stage usually is connected with some depression and nervous breakdowns. The immigrants or/and tourists feel lonely and lost, not safe and in need of protection. Even if they speak a language spoken in the country, they feel like using their mother tongue. Their families and friends stayed in their homeland, so the travellers feel bereaved. This is the stage during which most people decide to come back home. However, if they manage to get through that, they shall come to the last stage of culture adjustment, that is to the culture adjustment itself.
Indeed, if someone has managed to cope in the second stage of culture shock crisis, they will soon get accustomed to the conditions of the life they lead now and will accept the new culture adopting it with time as their own. They will think positive again and take charge of their own lives. Although the new life will not be as superb as they imagined, they will not regard it as hopeless and down-to-earth any more, and soon they will feel at home.
Culture shock is what all the travellers have to encounter, and all of them can pass successfully. It seems an inevitable step in their culture adjustment process, and as one can hardly leap over it, it must be climbed courageously and treated as a good exercise for one's mental (and physical) fitness.
