<ICLE-PO-POZ-0034.1>

What's a book? A collection of printed pages neatly arranged between the covers? Or, maybe, a close companion? The companion that provides you with a unique opportunity to enter a different sphere, where fiction diffuses in reality, where you can discover yourself again, through somebody else's eyes. It's easy. All you have to do is listen and identify with the characters, and enjoy the story only to find out that you are not alone.
Personally, I would opt for the second, somewhat simplified definition of a book, as only this one gives the full explanation of why I read. In other words, I read for a book to enjoy somebody else's company and to hear a real human voice emerging from the pages. What's more, I have very specific and precise preferences. To feel the real ties with the REAL person (dead or alive) I choose biographies or autobiographies. Only here, can I discover that the problems and joys of my life seem to be very similar to the ones of others, not imaginary characters, but people of flesh and blood. This gives a very comforting feeling that humans are not hermits, living their solitary lives in some far-away places.
To illustrate my statement, I would refer to a very particular book I have read recently -- "Wicked Lady: Salvador Dali's Muse" by Tim McGirk. The enormous proportion of the book is devoted to the life of the most eccentric of artists, the genius of surrealism -- Salvador Dali. I was mesmerized by the real story of his life described masterly, in great detail, by the English journalist. This volume provided me with a multitude of peculiar sensations: from shock to amusement, from sympathy for the artist to admiration of his work, from liking to strong hatred. Isn't it human? I also discovered that although famous and glorified, which is, by some people, regarded as a recepy for utter happiness, Dali was not satisfied with his life. He was an extremely fragile and delicate individual, that could be easily hurt and discouraged, hunted by numberless maniacs, phobias, and mental breakdowns. Isn't it amazing? Almost for everybody Dali has always been the embodiment of extravagance, artistic courage, and self-confidence. He must have been a great pretender, hidden in the shell of lies and "faces", unable to cope with problems of personal and artistic nature that he encountered. I ask again, isn't it human?
Certainly, my life is not that colorful or tragic, as the life of Dali. The example of Tim McGirk's work is just to serve as an illustration of great joy and knowledge a book can provide the reader with, but, most of all, of the peculiar unity that develops between the hero and the reader.
