<ICLE-PO-POZ-0004.2>

The theory of evolution places man on the highest level of development. He is the creature whose highly developed brain has enabled him to acquire skills which have proven indispensable in subordinating the remaining life forms. Moreover, over centuries of evolution, humankind has succeeded in harnessing the wild and creating the modern urban life. Surprisingly enough, modern living conditions are perceived as most unnatural for man despite their great sophistication. People are often referred to as 'human animals' who have trapped themselves in an enormous, concrete zoo which is in constant danger of cracking under the strain. Certainly, there are those who relish urban life for a variety of reasons. People who condemn the city life and those who cherish the values of it put forward a number of well-founded arguments which are mainly of personal and social nature.
Those who perceive modern society as a crumbling structure claim that its future disintegration will ensue the disintegration of individuals who form it. They assert that a modern city-dweller has been trapped in the most unnatural conditions imaginable. He has been confined to living in concrete flats or houses where his desire for expansion has been effectively supressed. He has also been forced to participate in the 'ratrace', the strife to succeed in any circumstances. Man's most natural instincts to live amiably with the members of his own species have been 'killed' because in order to succeed he is compelled to eliminate those who may prevent him from doing so. Man's supressed urges and cravings find an outlet in most abnormal behaviours he frequently displays. These include masturbation, attacks on his offspring, homosexuality.
People who relish the pleasures of modern urban life express a drastically different view. They reiterate that man is highly unlikely to suffer from any 'side effects' of urban life. New technological developments, expanding industries provide an increasing number of jobs that enable people organize their lives, secure their financial position. Their standard of living is constantly rising which enables them enjoy the pleasures unattainable outside the city.
Another argument put forward by both groups is of social nature. Those who see society as a cracking block maintain that the rising number of city dwellers results in undesirable social phenomena like unemployment. A stupendous number of jobless people eventually take to crime. They start robbing, murdering in order to survive in anonymous concrete zoos.
The opponents, however, claim that the metropolis provides an enormous number of pleasures that prevent people from any unsociable behaviour. The city provides an opportunity to indulge in the luxuries such as a variety of cultural events or a possibility to socialize with different nationalities. The opponents also assert that those who don't relish urban life have an option of leaving the city and setting down in a different environment.
The arguments presented by both sides of the debate 'Is society going to collapse soon' are fairly convincing. However, a comparison of the behaviour of the city dweller and an animal leads to an amazing conclusion that human behaviour resembles that of a captured animal, and not a wild one. Therefore, it seems feasible to assert that urban life created over centuries of evolution is not natural for human species and thus, very likely to collapse.
