<ICLE-PO-POZ-0043.1>

George Orwell or actually Eric Arthur Blair is, in my opinion, a writer who described totalitarianism in the best way. I mean, it cannot be done better. It does not matter if we are talking about socialism, communism or fascism. Orwell described a system which includes all those enumerated above. He described in a brilliant way mechanisms which work in all of those systems.
In one of his essays Orwell wrote that politics is a kind of a subatomic world in which part can be bigger than a whole. According to Orwell world of politics is too complicated to talk about equality in it. He once said that Stalin and his colleagues having the best intentions could not behave in different ways in reality of that time. There is no equality if there is any hierarchy. Since 1930 it was possible to notice signs of attempts to establish clear hierarchy in Russian society which completely argues with the idea of equality. Orwell thought that English people could not understand the system established in Russia because they wanted to believe that somewhere in the world there is a country of real socialism where equality is the highest virtue. Of course we know that there is no such country. It cannot exist as there will always be a kind of hierarchy. There will be always a ruling class: "more equal" people who pull the strings and "less equal" group of society which has to work hard. Orwell admits in one of his essays that there is no complete democracy in England. Definately there is no equality in England nowadays. What is more there is no equality on any street of any town in the world. Because how should we understand equality? What kind of criteria should we use to describe and estimate it? Is it only money, good job or position in society? In my opinion we can consider equality also when we are talking about love, health or friendship. People have various talents and abilities but is it always just? One can learn three languages within two years fluently. The other one is able to learn one language in that period of time on a very poor level. It is not just but that is the way it is and nothing can be done to change it. It is much more tragic if we consider the idea of equality in connection with health, life. Some people are born with misshapen feet, some are blind or deaf and some will not live until they are thirty because they have a serious heart disease. Is it just? Is it equality? No. However no one can change it. There is no equality in love. Some are loved and adored and some spend their lives lonely and unhappily although they are ready to give and receive love. However they are not attractive or outgoing enough and they remain unnoticed. They will never know the taste of self-realization in love. They will never know how it feels to be the only person for the other man. It is not equality. However this is reality. And we have to face it. Equality was never possible. It is not possible now. The statement about "more equal animals" regarded as a metaphor applied to society is as true as it was fifty years ago. Those who promise equality are liars or mad people. Knowing history we can see how tragic were results of "equality" proposed by Lenin: hunger, concentration camps, cultural and economical destruction of a country. The result was bloodshed and terror.
Krzysztof Kieslowski describes the problem of equality in one of his three films which together are called Trilogy. Kieslowski in his film called "White" seems to be saying that there is no equality in love or any other strong feeling. White represents equality in French flag. However the idea of liberty, equality and brotherhood was also born during violent and brutal revolution.
Unfortunately there is no equality, it never existed and it will never be the main virtue of human race. Some attempts to change it are possible but they will never be successful. Looking at present situation in the world Orwell could see with bitter satisfaction that what he said was never more true than it is now.
