<ICLE-PO-POZ-0012.1>

Imagination is one of the features human beings have been equipped with. Some of us overuse this trait, some, on the contrary, use it very seldom. No one doubts, however, that life without dreaming would be dull and uninspired. Despite the fact that science, technology and industrialisation have made a decisive step forward in the 20th century, and many of us cannot do without them, there are still many people whose main aim is to use their imagination in order to contribute to the development of art, culture or philosophy. Since imagination belongs to one of the most important of our features we cannot deprive ourselves of it. That is why, many of us are interested in art, theatre, films or philosophy as these domains prompt our imagination and dreaming.
Painters have always been very controversial personages. Their views on life, people or God have been argued about, and so they have made people more considerate in sensitive. Jerzy Duda-Gracz is one of the most famous painters in contemporary Poland. His paintings say more about us than philosophical tracts. He shows the world of existential despair where a person cannot find his/her internal harmony. Humour is to be the protection against deep distress. By means of painting he talks to people, about people and about Poland. The fact that he lives in the country, away from 'civilised' citizens, does not make him less famous. His works have scandalised and astonished, excited and disturbed people. Certainly, however, they have made people think about our existence on the Earth. Statys Eidrigievicius is a Lithuanian who by means of art tries to join Polish and Lithuanian cultures. His drawings consist of irony, tenderness and Slav exaltation. Therefore, his exhibition have attracted all kinds of people: connoisseur of art as well as the average spectators. After visiting his display, one cannot stop wondering whether our lives make sense or not.
Other visual pictures, apart from paintings, that can prompt our dreaming and imagination are theatre plays and films. A cinema has become one of the important elements of entertainment nowadays. The repertoire is varied, so that young as well as elderly people enjoy themselves there. The audience, however, can be divided into two groups. There are people who go to see a film in order to have a good time during a projection, and after leaving the cinema they forget what the film was about. The other group, consists of people who go to the cinema not only in order to have fun but also to consider and discuss important issues raised in the film. By means of visual pictures they use their imagination. Krzysztof Kieslowski is considered to be one of the best film directors by this part of audience. By making films, he tells stories about various levels of life. According Kieslowski, reality does not consist of hard facts, which can be taken in hands, but of the mass of feelings and tension that influence our relationship with others. The world he shoes, is the world of presentiment, suspicion, experience, mystery that exist in us, and which we do not realize during everyday lives. What is more, he tries to answer the question what for we walk in the streets, live in cities and countries. This problem, as each question without an answer, will always accompany human existence. Moreover, people will imagine that perhaps one day they will find the answers to these basic questions. That is why, Kieslowski's films have had such a large audience. Many people hope that once, after seeing his film and thinking it over, they will be able to answer some of the important questions.
The figure of God, the question of life after death and the truth of the Bible are other problems that have occupied people for centuries. These issues have not been clarified yet, and as we live at the end of the century there is an urgent need for solving the problems. Uta Ranke-Heinemann, the most famous woman in the field of Catholic theology, tries to provide answers to them. Her issues lies on the verge of theology, philosophy and first of all, religion. She is employed in defining the relation between faith and the mind. Her books force us to personal consideration, to verification of traditional opinions which often are superficial and consequently false. Her publications have attracted the whole world's attention, since they help in coping with controversial matters, and 'second' part of our lives.
Concluding, people cannot exist without using and appealing to one of the most significant traits they have been endowed with, which is imagination. Yet, people use it to various degree. Some, create works of art, others base their dreaming on these works. However, there is no doubt that neither technology nor science can substitute for our mind, and replace dreaming and imagination with technical entertaining inventions. Therefore, people will never stop dreaming no matter how highly developed science, technology or industry will be.
