<ICLE-PO-POZ-0025.2>

Television and video films are widely available and atractive especially for young people. TV has become not only one of the forms of entertainment but a kind of faulty imagery for many people who want to follow, perform everything they watch on the "silver screen".
Witnessed violence heightens the observers to act aggressively themselves. Film scenes with violence stimulate aggression on and lower the restraints of viewers, against such behaviour. Aggression on the TV screen stimulates aggressive inclinations of the viewers. Psychologists claim that each person has more or less inclinations towards violence. These inborn inclinations can be lower or enhance by bringing up, social, influences and education. Unfortunately, nowadays children and the youth spend most of their life in front of the TV screen so the influence of TV is dominant in their life.
One can say that parents should control what their children watch and protect them from bad influence. However the real fact is that children and teenagers watch what they want, because parents are absent or too busy to control their off-spring, and the young people imitate scenes from films like a bomb-hoax or derailing trains by bars. TV shows them a lot of interesting ideas connected with vandalism, mugging or shoplifting. TV "educates" potential criminals by displaying crimes.
Teachers at schools observe their pupils who imitate violent scenes from recently watched films. Schoolchildren train their colleagues. They imitate their TV or movie-idols Mc Guywer or Bruce Lee. They demonstrate how to kill somebody or harm as painful as possible.
Besides, figures reveal a considerable prevalence of vandalism in schools. There is perennial rise of juvenile delinquency and crime. There are more and more assaults on teachers, robberies and rapes. They often imitate the same violent scenes which were displayed on TV or movie screens.
Violence breeds violence and the increasing rate of especially juvenile delinquency and the forms of crimes, mostly identical with violent scenes from films, prove that films stimulate aggressive inclinations produce bad examples, prompting anti-social ideas in various attractive forms which tempt, influence especially young people.
Hooligans more and more wretch or damage flats. Even young boys are able to plunge a knife into somebody's knife, extortion money and inflict grievous bodily harm. These are deeds of young people, who mimic Their TV heroes or some would say "black characters".
Many directors or script writers claim that "black characters" in films deter some crimes because they show the face of cruelty in murders or assaults. In fact, these films are terrible only for some sensitive spectators. Most people with aggressive inclinations are stimulated to bad deeds by prompting interesting, new although often cruel ideas. Violent films become training grounds for such people. Police reports confirm these conclusions because many criminals imitate scenes from films.
The rising tide of violence in films must be curbed before it does irreparable damage.
