<ICLE-PO-POZ-0026.1>

For years parents have been trying to explain the issue of sexual behaviour to their children in a way that would satisfy both sides. Books and lectures of the subject have been their last resorts. As a matter of fact, then, discussion on sex and its consequences has divided parents into supporters, but most of all out-and-out opponents of the subject. The opponents have concentrated upon the mental and physical consequences of sexual intercourse and its influence on young people. The supporters, however, use their own strong arguments, such as, awarness and responsibility for one's sexual behavior which underline the necessity of discussing sex with children at a very young age.
Parents frequently restrain themselves from making a family taboo, sex, more explicit. First of all they feel embarrassed and incompetent to lead such a discussion. They all, however, expect their children to behave as responsible and mature people, especially when they have already started a sexual relationship. The supporters, on the other hand, reckon that ignoring the subject is much worse than putting it into discussion. Children are usually ten (at least in Poland) when the problem of sex differences is raised at schools. The subject is limited to enumerating these differences, but there is much more to it like prevention, pregnancy and abortion, for example. Children expect to gain this knowledge at school, but it seems that they are mistaken in thinking that it is the right place to rely on.
Caring parents defend themselves stating that an open discussion and, moreover, description of sexual intercourse might force children to reject it as natural way of expressing one's feelings. The supporters of the idea, however, compare a rape of unaware teenager or a child to it and wonder when she would be much more shocked and inclined to rejecting sex completely. It is necessary to inform children how they should behave when faced with indecent proposals or persuaded into prostitution. Such a discussion proves helpful in evoking self-defence and self-awarness of what sex really is. Children should be taught that sex can have a very positive influence on their lives as a way of getting to know a person who they love and care for. All advantages of it should take place in the right moment of their lives.
Another argument given by the opponents is that discussion about sex may encourage children to try and do it. First of all, if they are aware of the consequences of sexual intercourse in their childhood, they will be reasonable enough not to take a risk and bear the consequences of irresponsible decision. The main reason why so many young people become parents is their sheer curiosity how it is to make love. Ignored by their own parents they seek for any explanation and decide that the best way to find it is to try it themselves. Their knowledge is based on books, magazines or films that treat sex as a mechanical behaviour and present its vulgar forms. Therefore, the young struggle with the consequences of irresponsible decisions such as pregnancy, marriage and a divorce in the end.
Sex has always been a controversial subject, nevertheless, its influence on our lives cannot be overlooked. Moreover all the questions about its functions, purposes and consequences should be made explicit to children before they are in trouble. In this way they could prevent themselves as adults, from unexpected pregnancy or veneral diseases, especially the AIDS virus. The knowledge about sex, on the other hand, could help them to make responsible decisions as to if and when they would like to become parents. The influence of sex on our lives is undeniable, therefore, we must be teachers to our own children and show them that sex is the symbol of love not hate. Besides, we are the only source of knowledge the child relies on and expects to have an access to.
