<ICLE-PO-POZ-0013.1>

<*> says the Declaration of Independence. From history, however, we know that this enlightened idea of equality remained but a theoretical concept which did not have much to do with real life. Even today, although according to the law all people are equal, inequality, for some reasons, is blatant. Shortly speaking, some people are 'more equal' than others.
Why do some people drive BMWs while others beg in the streets? Why do some people buy houses with swimming pools and large, beautiful gardens while others strive for a piece of bread for their children? Are they really equal? The answer to this question is obvious: no, they are not; and the reason is money. It is money that makes the statement that all people are equal a hypocrisy. How can we claim that everybody has equal chance in life when the poor are, in fact, doomed to fail? It is only people lucky enough to be born to wealthy families that can get good education and good social position, which, in most cases, are the keys to success. The poorer part of our society usually have to finish their education early in order to support themselves and their families. As we can see, money divides the world into two parts: one for the 'more equal', and the other for the rest of society. One is for respectible, rich citizen, and the other for the masses. Even the law, which is supposed to be the same for everybody, is more likely to take the side of a well dressed and educated person than that of a beggar.
Another thing that makes some people 'more equal' is their sex. No doubts, women are at a disadvantage. Not only are they treated as less valuable members of society by some men, but also, in the most extreme cases, they are denied any rights. In Muslim countries, for example, women have no right to vote, no right to any possessions, and, as a matter of fact, they are treated no better than domestic animals or slaves of their fathers or husbands. However, even in the countries where they apparently have the same rights as men, women are much 'less equal'. They rarely get the most prestigious jobs, and even if they do, they are paid much less then men. In Poland, for example, woman' s earnings are by 30% lower than those of a man in the same position. What is more, women are treated by many people as less intelligent than men, and their success is often belittled. Women themselves are also not taken seriously. Their ambitions and their jobs are very often treated as the whims of bored ladies, who just do not know what to do with their time. What is more, although women in Poland, for example, are on average better educated than men, they have more difficulties with getting a job. The above examples show clearly that the theory of equality has not really worked in practice.
As we can see, it is not easy to be a woman. However, it seems to be even more difficult to be a black person. Inequality stemming from the skin colour was commonplace in the past, but it has continued up to this day, although in the less explicit form. For example, the coloured are very often viewed as worse, less reliable and dishonest people. Therefore, they are twice as likely to be unemployed than the white, and four times as likely to be stopped by the police. Moreover, it is much more difficult for their children to get good education than for their white peers, and, even when they graduate from the best schools, it is difficult for them to get a good job. The wrong colour of the skin unables them to occupy the most prestigious professions, which are taken by the white. Consequently, black doctors, lawyers or politicians are in a minority. Also, the living conditions of the black are much worse. What is more, studies show that the coloured people must work much harder for respect, and sometimes, even when they are honest, hardworking and intelligent, they are treated with suspicion and derision, and their efforts are belittled. Shortly speaking, the darker colour of the skin puts people into the class of 'less equal'.
The above examples show that Orwell's statement that some people are more equal than others is true even today. This truth cannot be denied by any law, however just and impartial. This is because, as a matter of fact, no law can abolish our deeply rooted racial prejudice, no law can change our attitude to women, no law can ever provide all people with equal amount of money, equally good education, or give them equal chance in life. Therefore, no matter what we do, there will always be a favoured class of people, a class where no woman, no black and no poor person will ever enter, a class of 'more equal'.
