<ICLE-PO-POZ-0016.2>

If it happened to be the election day today you, being a patriot, would probably give your vote to the candidate you support. Then you would probably resume your usual holiday routine, not giving much thought to elections. This being Sunday, you could spend more time with your children, you could pick up a book or take tour family for a walk. Whatever you would do, however, one thing is certain: as it were getting on for eight o'clock, the time polling stations close, you would be more and more apprehensive about the anticipated results of elections. You will tune to television or radio to find out.
It is because there is a demand for certain information, elections oriented for this matter, that this information is supplied. After all, there have always been people only happy to make profit by meeting others' needs, and it is information that people now desperately want.
In a free market economy, what people want, people get, always in abundance. Since providing information in whatever form or means seems to have become a very lucrative business, there are more and more people determined to make money on it. Even though, for instance, there are numerous news bulletins on television, there are more and more news-oriented channels coming into being. We have got as many as seven such channels on satellite television, which is too many for us to watch anyway.
What media, those interested in profits, do is they relay information to those who want it and make the others want it desperately by explaining to them how important information is in our world, especially in business, economics and politics. The trick is that, having glued people to a source of information (a television news bulletin, a newspaper, etc.), they all slot a few commercials here and there. After all, it is all about money.
The more people are glued to a source of information the more profitable it is, the money from commercials constituting its income. Therefore, different news relaying media compete trying to scoop others by being fastest, most reliable and accurate about the news they disseminate. Still others attempt to attract people by assuming a certain angle in their analysis and coverage of facts.
Thus, Sky News aims at a watcher within The United Kingdom, focusing on the news that is of some importance to the inhabitants of The British Isles. EBN (European Business News) finds business-relevant side to news as does CNBC, the former concentrating on European affairs. In turn, EuroNews, being broadcast in five languages, scrutinises mainly Europe, bringing up facts that might have a bearing on the evolving European Union.
The governing boards of those channels will always find ways to attract viewers. The information they use has an informative role. However, for them it is probably a means to make profits. Everyone wants to profit and information is as good means to achieve that as any other.
