<ICLE-PO-POZ-0007.2>

Last year there was a chance of introducing compulsory and well organised sex education to Polish secondary schools. Unfortunately, Poland is such a strange country, where decisions are usually influenced by people least competent in a given field. Owing to this phenomenon, any classes treating sex seriously will not be incorporated into school curriculum. The pressure group composed of the MPs, who judging from their age and views, have for a long time had nothing to do with sex, backed by clergymen, managed to halt the necessary legislation. Their arguments ranged from the lack of demand for such classes, via the dangerous consequences of arising teenagers' interest in this sphere, to claims that sex is only to be dealt with between a husband and his wife.
The argument that there is a lack of demand for sex education at schools if confronted with the statistics according to which 60 percent of secondary school graduates declare they have already had sex, proves very weak. Moreover, 97 percent of secondary school pupils would like to have classes thoroughly covering sex related topics because they are not satisfied with their present knowledge of this subject. Therefore it should not be surprising that most of young parents of unwanted children blame adults for lack of sexual education. And this is not only the problem of unfortunate youngsters and their parents because the burden of unwanted children is shouldered by the whole society. Denying that there is the demand for sex education at secondary schools not only contradicts the facts, but is also extremely harmful to the society.
Similarly false and harmful is the view that lessons devoted to sex would unnecessarily arise teenagers' interest in sex. It is only human nature that this interest arises and if it is not properly dealt with, it becomes vulgarised or is artificially suppressed. Both scenarios lead to serious personality crises such as provocative sexual behaviour on the one hand and illnesses like anorexia on the other. Most of anorexics acquired their illness due to difficulties with accepting the puberty changes in their bodies or disappointment with their first sexual encounters. these facts refute the theory according to which interest in sex can be diverted into sports or education. It is hard to understand then, why in Poland, where recent studies revealed that 30 percent of secondary school pupils can be diagnosed anorexic, the parliament sticks to the false theory and denies sex education to thousands of frustrated teenagers. Such education, approaching sex as a natural human function, would ease tensions and consequently prevent mental diseases and abnormal behaviours.
The most ridiculous argument against introducing sex education to secondary schools is the one which advocates that sex should only be dealt with within a marriage. It is very naive to assume that the right attitude, appreciation, and knowledge of sex will come naturally once two people are declared husband and wife. It simply does not happen. The fact that 35 percent of divorces are due to sex related problems proves this. Also half of marriages caused by pregnancy are doomed to fail. These alarming figures clearly show that the lack of sex education does not help marriages but actually undermines them and brings about a lot of suffering which could have been avoided.
Sex education should be introduced into secondary schools. This would satisfy the existing demand and take care of anxieties related to this subject. Not only young people, but the whole society would benefit from this introduction as there would be less tragedies caused by mental illnesses or unwanted children. It would also strengthen the institution of marriage. Therefore we should not be taken in by false arguments of campaigners against the introduction and do as much as we can to make the authorities introduce compulsory education into secondary schools.
