<ICLE-PO-POZ-0002.2>

The society of ours is, to a large extent, gender-polarized. The roles of men and women are very much determined by stereotypes and changing them requires more than legal regulation. Acts of law assure the equality of the two sexes. Both males and females are granted the same educational opportunities and job prospects. They have the right to vote and choose political career. Yet, all this is just a theory. In reality people ground their thinking and behaviour on stereotypes, which in result enforces and reinforces gender inequalities.
Despite women's suffrage and the sexual revolution, stereotyping is still very powerful and preserves the biased status of females in society. This seems to be fuelled by male chauvinist presentation of women in the media. Indeed, it "emphasises women's domestic, sexual, consumer and marital activities to the exclusion of all else." In soap operas women are depicted as busy housewives and as contented mothers. Advertisements show women to be dependent, narrow-minded consumers of products advised by men. In entertainment the role of women is often that of sex-objects - to mention only such crudely sexist shows as Benny Hill or Monty Python. The media easily ignore that over half of women go out to paid employment and that they have profession-related ambitions and problems. Because the prejudice against females being mere homemakers inferior to males prevails, women face more inequalities in their public lives.
Women are said to be "a majority with minority representation and power", and unfortunately there are lots of cases supporting this argument. In Britain, for example, twenty years after the equal pay act women in non-manual jobs earn only 67 per cent as much as their male counterparts. Most prestigious professions, like lawyers, doctors, company directors, are male-dominated while women are usually employed in clerical or unskilled posts. To get promotion women have to prove that their qualifications are not only as high as men's but much higher. As a rule, says Barbara Follett, <*>. And <*>.
To attain actual equality women should overcome fear of public presentation of their opinions and broadly enter the world of business and politics. Female participation in making decisions concerning war and peace, economy and environmental protection would be to the benefit of all. However it will not be possible until males re-think and, hopefully, reject familiar arguments about women being unreliable, irrational and dependent on instincts. In fact, it is the opposite; women taking active part in social and political life prove to be responsible, thoughtful and worth confidence. Their ability to mingle intelligence with intuition makes them successful negotiators and helps them in reaching compromise.
The only field with men's under-representation is the home. Again, stereotyping tells men that they are breadwinners; their role is limited to supporting their families financially. Hence more conservative males are typically reluctant to participate in domestic tasks and rearing children. However the absence of a husband and father considerably weakens family ties and has a negative effect on psychological and social development of offsprings, boys especially. In order to eliminate this and introduce real partnership in the home, men should be encouraged to devote more time to housework and children. Legally, all fathers should be entitled to paternity leave. Limiting their average working week from 46 to 35 hours would also help. Men taking the burden of the double shift off women's shoulders would create opportunities for their female-partner to self-actualise in professional career. Besides, relieved from some of the hards and stresses at work men would live longer and more fulfilled lives with their families.
Over the last 70 years women have won their struggle for legal equality between the sexes. Yet, this seems to have been easier than assuring respect for the law. It usually takes generations to change popular believes, stereotypes and unwritten rules that govern social life. Women demand that their intellectual faculties be appreciated and that they should have free access to management and politics at all levels. Still, we must remember that real equality does not necessary mean equal number of seats in parliament or a board of directors. It is rather removing chauvinist attitudes towards women being second-rate citizens and creating atmosphere of acceptance for women pursuing professional and political careers and men running the house and rearing children.
