<ICLE-PO-POZ-0036.1>

"All men were created equal." However, sexism exists and is clearly visible even within the above sentence. The term "men" may be addressed to all human beings as well as to the male part of humanity. It is well known that the differences between the sexes are huge. They refer not only to the appearance but also to the mental characteristics of both sexes. This knowledge entails a stereotype of a strong, wise man and his weak, silly woman treated as someone inferior to him. This is supposed to be an enlightened age but it would be hard to say so hearing what the average man thinks of the average woman. Even in the most progressive societies, women continue to be regarded as second-rate citizens as if they belonged to a different species.
It is enough to take into consideration the smallest unit of our society: a family and the role of a man and a woman play in it. There is the traditional family that has the male as its head. Except for ruling, his duties are rather restricted. Of course he works and earns money while all the remaining chores are on the woman's shoulders. If it accidentally happens that she also has a job, it does not excuse her from being a housewife. In most cases, such a thing as partnership does not exist.
For centuries, a woman was treated as an object or a thing. Nobody cared about her needs. As an example we may use the fact that female sexual needs were acknowledged only in the nineteenth century (when clitoris was discovered) while men's sexual needs have been recognized for ages. Women are often treated as child- producing machines and they serve as a objects to satisfy men's lust.
Men keep on maintaining the myth that there are many jobs women cannot do. Political posts, business and many other managerial positions are almost entirely controlled by men. This situation is preposterous! It is said that women are unreliable, irrational and that they depend to little on cool reasoning and to much on intuition to arrive at decisions. The situation does not change even when women prove their abilities. The truth is that men have so called inferiority complex and they are simply afraid of being beaten by women.
Unfortunately, in most cases it is a woman who does not want to admit she has the same abilities as a man and the same rights to be a "full-time" citizen. It will be impossible to change the situation unless women themselves stop to relish their social position. Militiant feminists constitute a very tiny part of the female population and most women approach their actions with a big dose of distrust. However, if women go on accepting their position within imposed frames, they will remain second-class citizens forever.
