<ICLE-PO-POZ-0029.1>

The idea of European unification conquered modern policy and economy. It is viewed as a best option for Europe that is still divided into the rich West and the poor East. Such Europe cannot be  a significant competitor for other growing economies and military powers such as the United States or Japan. Besides, the example of the USA as a country of many states proves the conviction that the unity is the key to success. However, Europeans have to realize that creating "another America" in that part of the globe is impossible. Europe is different, burdened with history, old alliances and animosities. Therefore it seems that the idea of the united states of Europe is not such an obvious and promising perspective.
Looking at this idea from the Polish point of view, also brings double standard conclusions. History provides enough proofs for the mistrust towards western attempts to unify all European countries. Many times was Poland treated like a good on the market by the powerful (Jalta agreement). Therefore the unification is perceived both as a great chance for Poland and as a danger to its independence.
The advantages of entering the European Community, however seem to be very encouraging. As a member of the Community, Poland would have to be respected as an equal partner. This would be connected with the recognition of the Polish rights that are not always respected by the influential neighbours (Russians' and Germans' intervention in Polish foreign affairs). Cooperation in policy would be accompanied by the economic partnership. Creating common European trade law, which appears to be the only way of introducing Polish goods to the European market, would become possible, then. This step might turn to be a stimulation for this country's economy and a remedy to such problems like unemployment, technological backwardness and bad organization of many branches of economy.
On the other side the unification rises a strong outcry. The opponents of this project claim that setting links with the powerful may deprive Poland's of its true freedom. Poland as a country that have never had a privileged position on the continent is afraid of using its weaknesses by the West (the West to use its weaknesses). The predictions that this country will be treated as a looser and a stranger among the rich is quite common. Therefore, for many Poles joining the Community means nothing else but giving others the right to decide about their issues.
The future of cultural cooperation may also be perceived both in negative and positive respect. It would undoubtedly enliven the relations with other countries. Additionally, the unification might provide new opportunities for the young, giving the a chance to study and work abroad, and for the scientists who would have an access to all sources. However, such a cooperation may appear counterproductive. It is very likely that the economical "exodus" of many talented individuals to the richer countries would achieve enormous proportions. This phenomena seems to be the most gloomy perspective for Poland's future.
The unification of all European countries is a very complicated process. It requires from the future members of the European Community tolerance and longsightedness. Being on the threshold of that process, Poland and all post communist countries, have to face many dilemmas. The present attitude of the Twelve may support their fears and discourage them (the recent exclusion from the Community's conference on Polish issues). However, Poland cannot reply with isolation as the unification still remains the best solution to its problems. On the other side, all countries should understand that history and its consequences cannot divide the continent. The successful process of unification should be carried out with respect to nations' rights and without special privileges given to the powerful. Otherwise, Europe will never become a continent of success.
