<ICLE-PO-POZ-0015.2>

EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS SHOULD BE STOPPED Nowadays many of the big companies maintain that their main aim is to look after people and to make them happy. This is the reason why new products, especially cosmetics, appear almost daily on the market. Best scientists are hired to ensure that all the novelties may be safely used by the consumers. On the other hand, a great number of scientists work on new medicines and vaccines. Few people realize, however, that all the products must be thoroughly tested before their release on the market. Yet, even fewer are aware of the fact that many of the experiments are carried out on animals. Scientists claim that as animals are similar to human beings, it is safe to predict the results on the basis of vivisection, that is tests on live animals. Nevertheless,  many's the time they forget that animals are living creatures as well and their rights have to be respected. Therefore, experiments on animals should be stopped, as they are cruel and inhumane.
It is commonly believed that without vivisection progress in medicine would not be possible. All new drugs and vaccines have to be checked for side-effects before they can appear on the market. However, predicting what the effect of a medicine will be on human beings from tests done on animals, may prove to be very difficult. Since human organism is very complex, very few species are similar enough to guarantee that the results of the tests will be reliable. Thus, there is not much point in experimenting on rats, mice or rabbits. Moreover, it is due to improvements in medicine and better standard of living, and not as a result of animal tests, that diseases such as tuberculosis, diphtheria, cholera or smallpox, which were fatal in the old days, are now in decline. In fact, penicillin and aspirin, two of the most widely-known drugs, were discovered just by chance. Therefore, since advances in medicine do not necessarily involve tests on animals, there is no need to use them any longer.
The cosmetic industry also relies on being able to test the products on animals. According to a recent market research, as much as 65 % of all available cosmetics were tested on animals. The results may seem strange.   Lipsticks or soaps are designed for people, and  rabbits or mice are not likely to use them. Thus, there is no reason why they should take part in experiments. Nowadays most of the  tests on cosmetics may be carried out by means of the IN VITRO method, that is on isolated fragments of human skin, on artificial skin or cell cultures. Another technique, called IN VIVO, involves testing cosmetics on groups of volunteers who remain under special medical control. Finally, some firms resort to consumer testing. Volunteers use a certain product for a month and then complete a detailed questionnaire. Thanks to these methods, some of the companies, such as L'Oreal, completely abandoned vivisection. As we can see, the  use of animals for tests in the cosmetic industry cannot be justified.
Animals are the same living creatures as we are. Therefore, using them in experiments not only deprives them of their natural environment, but also of their rights. Tests done on animals are frequently  cruel and inhumane. Very often the animals have suffered so much that they have to be put down. Evidently vivisection is neither indispensable for advances in medicine nor for testing cosmetics. Consequently, it should be banned. Scientists should stop experimenting on living creatures. We all also could defend animal rights by choosing products that were not tested on animals.
