<ICLE-PO-POZ-0022.2>

Joining the European Community could impede social changes in Poland and threaten our economy. After the collapse of communism and the revolutions of 1989 Poland is going through serious economic and social changes and the process will take years before it is finished. Therefore, even if the advantages of joining the EC would be big, we should rather concentrate on stabilizing our inner situation than think of a common market with other European countries.
The advantages of becoming a member of the United Europe seem to be obvious. Poland would no longer need to "struggle" to improve the situation of its citizens, but it could put some part of responsibility on other EC members. This would mean getting help on the economic and social level. Because of the monetary union, Polish currency, which is not very strong, or sound, would be strengthened. Also thanks to a common defense policy Poland would have better organizations and methods to fight crime. Our country would not become a safer place because of that, but at least we could cooperate with other EC countries who have necessary equipment and well-trained people at their disposal. The question, however, is what would "cooperation" mean and how would Poland contribute to the creation of the United Europe.
Poland's contribution to Europe's prosperity would be almost non-existent and, therefore, the role of our country would be insignificant. The costs of unification would be too high and this, in turn, would lead to a collapse of our economy, lay-offs and social discontent. Poland would not be able to keep to a 30% increase of the EC budget that was proposed by the Community's three richest countries - France, Germany and the United Kingdom. There is also the danger that many issues, like the question of whether students should pay for their higher education or not, would be approached in a way that most Poles would not approve of.
Poland cannot approve of, or accept, the benefits of joining the EC without thinking of the shortcomings of that process. We are too poor a country to bear the huge economic costs of unification. We cannot take help without giving anything in return, either. For that reason, Poland should rather seek cooperation with countries that have a similar economic situation and do not belong to the world powers instead of trying to join the EC. For the present, at least.
