<ICLE-PO-POZ-0042.1>

In the whole known history, societies have always used some sort of currency. First it was the produced goods (bartered for other ones), then precious metals, which in turn were replaced by the paper money issued by banks. Nowadays new forms of currency have emerged (cheques, credit cards) which have already superseded paper bills in many situations.
This short history of currency is to show that people have always needed some means of paying for goods and services. Why pay for them at all? Cannot everything be free? - someone might ask. The answer is quite simple. Every member of society needs certain goods like food, clothes and a shelter to survive. A single person can hardly be expected to be so versatile as to provide for herself or himself all these. So people have specialized - some produce food, some manufacture clothes and some build houses. This leads to the need for social interaction. If everyone is to have all the necessary products, the commodities must be exchanged within the society. In a group of ideally cooperative people this problem would be easily resolved. Everyone would produce as much as possible and everyone could take as much as he would need from the others. People, however, vary. Some are more productive and cooperative, some less. In a typical society the solution presented above would most probably lead to a situation when some of the people would work hard but there would also be individuals who would do nothing and profit from the labour of others. If one can have everything without any effort, why work? Some administrative solution can be proposed, for example making everyone work, but this has at least two major disadvantages. The first one is that the liberty of the people would be seriously infringed. People should be able to do what they wish (if their activities do not harm the others, of course). The second disadvantage of making work compulsory is that it would be simply ineffective. It could be feasible to establish if the person is doing nothing at all but determining if they are doing their best is impossible. People could largely simulate working and still draw profits from the society. So this model is not practicable - the system where goods are free for everyone quickly degenerates into one where the more diligent people work for the less industrious ones.
The problems presented above occur even in the simplest possible model of society, where everyone needs only basic things. This is not the case in real conditions. Some people want larger houses and more clothes than the others. The needs of individuals are not the same and again, one cannot change it in any administrative way. A decree saying that buildings are to be of a given size and not any larger would make many members of society irritated and unhappy. Why should such regulations be imposed on people? Everyone should be free to have as huge a house as they wish. However, then a problem occurs. In any society most people would like to have large and luxurious residences. There would be neither enough people or materials to construct palaces for everyone. A just solution can be found - maybe only individuals who contribute the most to the society should have larger houses. To find the deserving ones, we have to establish whose products are the most valuable. Let us try to compare a mason with a baker. We have to find out how much work a house requires (how many days would a single mason have to work to build one). Then we should establish how much time it takes to bake a loaf of bread. When we divide the time of constructing a house by that of baking a loaf, we will get a factor representing how many times a house is more valuable than a loaf. We should also take into account the fact that baking bread and building require different qualifications and adjust our calculations accordingly. Then we can compare the baker with the mason by allocating them figures expressing the values of their work. Now everybody in our hypothetical society can calculate how much work they do and how large a house they should get for it. The value of each person's labour is expressed by figures and it determines their 'social status'. But here we get to the concept of money. When the production of an individual is worth a certain value, he or she can afford a large house. This is market economy.
Luxury means palaces for some people and different things (for example fast cars) for others. They want to possess different commodities. So it would be much better if everyone got a certain number of tokens of some sort for their work and could exchange them for the products they want. Only two things must be ensured. Firstly, the institution which issues the tokens should be supervised to prevent someone getting tokens for free. Then the tokens should be hard to forge. And this is, in fact, the concept of money proper.
In the light of what was presented above it is clear that money is necessary for any society which wants to function and conduct its business smoothly. We cannot do without some sort of currency. Money is not the source of evil doings, it is the bad sides of human nature that threaten the societies. The problem is with the psychology of man, his desire for wealth and power - and not with the means of evaluating and rewarding human effort. Models of Utopias where people do not use money assume that humans are equal in everything. The truth is quite the contrary - people are neither equal in abilities and talents nor in their needs. Every individual is different from the others. This must be taken into account and market economy, based on the free flow of money and goods, does it in the best way of all the political systems hitherto known.
