<ICLE-PO-POZ-0030.1>

I belong to those non-smokers who do not reject cigarettes for some ideological reasons, but purely practical ones. Smoking really disturbs me. Last weekend I went to a concert to one of the cafes in the city. The groups of people sitting here and there, drowning in the billows of smoke were the first thing I noticed. The smoke was so thick that I felt sick almost immediately. In the following half an hour I could not listen to the band. I fought with the smoke. I tried to find a place with some fresh air, drank in order to suppress the smell and taste of cigarettes in my nostrils and mouth. Then I suffered from the first attack of a terrible headache, and finally, left the cafe.
Being a non-smoker, you go to such a place and have your evening spoilt, and your feeling of comfort gone as a result. When you come into the university hall, any office or an official meeting, first you are forced to stop breathing for a while, then you are offered a cigarette. Most people smoke there, no matter who else is in the room and how he or she feels. A non-smoker must put up with the circumstances and conditions. Therefore, after the meeting, you leave fainting and come to the conclusion that you live in a society in which a cigarette is an indispensable ingredient of public and social life.
I ask, "Why should we not change that?" I do not want you to stop smoking, but I want you to limit it to the situations in which you are not likely to risk other people's health. I want you, smokers, and me, a non-smoker, to enjoy the most the ways of life we have chosen. I want a little bit of tolerance and common sense. Therefore, I insist on a prohibition against smoking in those places in which smokers and non-smokers officially or less officially meet.
We have begun living in a democratic state in which a natural law of a free choice exists. You have been deceived by the numerous tobacco companies that have entered our free market, and I have chosen the life of a non-smoker. Accept my choice! I have chosen health, so help me to be healthy and let me be healthy. Like those tobacco companies that have a right to enter our market and conquer you as their customers, I have a right to reject their offer. Therefore, when we meet to argue or cooperate, try to understand me and refrain from smoking in order to respect my choice.
Since you are in the majority, you may think that all the good reasons are in your side. Do you not realize that this approach to non-smokers is a bit egoistic. Democracy also means variety, and we both make this variety. Don't deprive me of my part in social life by drowning my creative abilities and physical efficiency in the cigarette smoke. Have you ever heard about the passive smokers? Yes, you certainly have. I, a non-smoker, belong to those passive smokers who inhale cigarette smoke and risk their health as much as you do. I am even at a double disadvantage. My time is wasted, because I cannot enjoy the meetings in cafes or do my best at the conferences, and my health is impaired. I do not want you to waste my time! I do not want you to ruin my health. I do not want your cigarettes to shorten my life, and I do not want them to sentence me to death of lung cancer. Therefore, think of a democratic progress and achievement, and support my claim to forbid smoking in the cafes, at the restaurants, in the conference rooms and other public places.
You can of course, say that my claim is unreasonable, that I am in the minority, which should conform to your habits. You can say that your decisions, as the majority decisions, are valid and you are not interested in my contribution to the public life, because you will be able to manage. This is not true. I am an equal participant of the social life of the group we live in. There is no law that allows you to prevent me from going to school, hospitals or the city hall. Therefore, do not ignore the problem! Put yourselves in my shoes and do not allow YOUR habit to lower the quality of MY life.
Do you remember a popular slogan issued by the Ministry of Health, "Cigarettes or health. It is your choice!", that "decorates" every advertisement of the tobacco industry? I have chosen health. Therefore, do it for me and for others like me, and make a small part of each day a Non Smoking Part of a Day.
