<ICLE-PO-POZ-0003.2>

As the most violent century in human history comes to an end, and as a calmer, more peaceful era does not appear to be in sight, the average recipient of the mass media cannot but be worried that he or she, a family member, or a close friend might, at some point, become the prey of a vicious individual or gang. How might one react? Would it be reasonable to call for a tightening up of the law and stiffer penalties as disincentives to crime? And, in particular, would there be any justification in advocating the retention or (in countries where it no longer exists) the reintroduction of capital punishment? Is it legitimate to suggest that murder should result in the ultimate penalty for the murderer both as an appropriate punishment and as a deterrent to others? If the answers turn out to be in the negative and, above all, that the death penalty is not a reasonable response to serious crime in a violent society, one is compelled to enquire why this is so.
Perhaps if it were possible to believe that capital punishment might serve as an effective deterrent it could be argued that the deaths of a few criminals would serve the greater good by preventing many more deaths, both of potential victims and of their potential murderers. But there is statistical evidence to show that the harshest penalties are the best deterrents. The strict laws of most European countries prior to the nineteenth century did not mean that the gallows were seldom needed. And today, in America, where the death penalty is regularly meted out in semi-public conditions, death rows round the country are full to overflowing. Crime results from a combination of various factors including desperation, deprivation or genetic disposition. To believe that executing a certain number of offenders who have been caught will seriously affect the reasoning of potential murderers is a simplistic response to a complex problem. At the bottom, it is no more than the lust for revenge.
A society that is committed to improving itself should take responsibility for creating conditions which as far as possible eliminate the need to respond with violence in various situations or to use violence to achieve an end. Meanwhile it would seem fair to offer to who seem only capable of evil an opportunity to undergo a rehabilitation. Perhaps some people will never be fit to re- integrate into society and will have to remain isolated for the rest of their lives. But it is not unreasonable to assume that some people will eventually see the error of their ways and feel the desire to atone by leading honest lives back in the community. People who are executed are denied the right to make up for their crimes, whereas those who are sent to prison have time to reflect. The hope of release and a new start can be a great motivator.
Of course it might be argued that many violent offenders, by the time they are caught and convicted, are totally beyond all redemption. But does this mean they should be got rid of? Does not a civilized society have an obligation even to its misfits? Does not the giving of an opportunity for rehabilitation, however limited the chance of success may be felt to be, show that society is not prepared to sink to the level of those who have gone astray but desires to lead by a sincere moral standard of righteousness, compassion and mercy. Two wrongs do not a right. There is no avoiding the fact that an execution is also a murder; it is a legalized murder, but a murder just the same.
Another problem which cannot be avoided by the proponents of the death penalty is that of the finality and irreversibility of the punishment. No matter how carefully the evidence is sifted, and how sure the jurors are that they are convicting the right person, it is by no means certain that a defendant is in fact always guilty. Many people have been sentenced to death on the strength of circumstantial evidence rather than factual, and as long as capital punishment exists, innocent people will be executed. It is worth noting that capital punishment existed at the time of the conviction of the six people in Birmingham and four from Guildford - Irishmen whom it was felt had been proved to be savage terrorists - ten totally innocent men would all have been hanged. As it was, both groups spent 16 years in jail, but at least they remained alive so that the chance continued for their innocence to be proved.
Capital punishment should not have place in a civilized society. It is a morally and spiritually impoverished community which can despatch its misfits into oblivion. Furthermore, it should not be forgotten that an execution deprives the people involved in carrying it out and those watching it of the utter degradation of a fellow human being; their innocence is lost forever. As George Orwell wrote in "The Road to Wigan Pier": <*>. Human beings ought to see themselves as being bound together in a community of the mind and universal brotherhood. The execution of a member of the human race is a denial of that bond. We ought to be able to say with John Donne: <*>.
