<ICLE-PO-POZ-0017.1>

Women are just a part of the human race. They are not something apart. They are not something new on the surface of the earth. Women are as sophisticated as men, anyhow, and they were never anything but women, and today they still should be only women. As normal human beings they should not feel either inferior or superior to men. These are the feminists who have created the false image of a perfect ' superhuman female ' which still has a pernicious influence on the cause of women. Suffragettes from the 19th century  fighting for equality between the sexes and for political rights of women have changed into members of Women's Liberation Movement in the second half of the 20th century who are ferocious feminists condemning everything what is connected with a traditional feminine mould and, in fact, doing more harm than good to the cause of women.
Contemporary feminists claim that they have liberated women from their disadvantaged position in a society by creating a perfect Queen of Beauty who is better than a man both in physical and psychical sense. Feminists also think they have created a strong and independent female whose primary goal in life is to achieve success in 'male' terms, who can compete with men in every job. Finally, for those women who do not want to forfeit the idea of a conventional marriage and traditional family, feminists have found a solution in a type of a woman who might 'have it all ', a woman who can combine easily the role of wife and mother with her professional career. Therefore feminists claim that they improved the situation of women in a society but probably they never considered an exorbitant price that women had to pay for the change.
The Sixties in  the 20th century were the true beginnings of emancipation. The early Sixties ' response was to decide not to grow up at all, to remain a spindly-legged girl-child - the look that was piloted by model Twiggy, a perfect Queen of Beauty. It was at this point that cases of anorexia nervosa and bulimia began to multiply. To be perfect was most important, even if you have to die for it, or play the no-food game to the brink of death. Nowadays women still go, in pursuit of the impossible, to hairdressers, to the cosmetic surgeons, to the beauty counters, to the dress shops, to the physical fitness clubs, pushing their food away, making themselves vomit, constantly tripping into the Beauty Myth, the Beauty Trap. Why? To show men a raised female consciousness, to show men that if they want, they can be perfect and better. But is it really the case? Certainly, it is not. There is no perfection and beauty in artificiality, in a woman who due to dieting and worrying about her appearance suffers eating disorders or nervous breakdown. Emancipation has gone too far, it turned into the constraint. Women did not prove to be better than men either in physical or psychical sense. Moreover, they harmed themselves.
Sixties's women also thought of themselves as free spirits, free of the conventions which had dulled their mothers' lives. They needed economic independence and an identity beyond wife and mother at home. So they became strong and financially well off conducting their own businesses or involving in politics. A new type of a career woman, who no longer lives vicariously through her husband, was created. Obviously such women attain social prestige but at the same time they lose something very important.  Career women usually lead  workoholic lives in which there is no room for love and friendship. They want to be better than man either in work or in politics. So if they compete with men they cannot love them deeply. They have difficulties in establishing satisfactory relationships with men. Children also seem to be an unnecessary burden, an obstacle to success. After some time  career women may realize that their biological clock have ticked away. Then  she feels old and lonely and she finds her life incomplete but often it is too late to change it.
Obviously there are some women who decided to ' have it all ' so they try to combine their professional careers with  family lives. But it is usually a tough row to hoe. A pregnant woman stands a slight chance of being employed and if she is already employed, there can be some problems with getting maternity leave. Sometimes, even after a few weeks ' break returning to work proves  quite a struggle. Firstly, it is very difficult to leave a little baby because the mother has to find a person she could trust to look after her child. Secondly, a young mother cannot hope for praise and support on the part of her boss and co-workers when, for example, her child is ill or has been crying all the night and the mother wants to take a few days off and  has not done her work on time. When a child is older and goes to school it seems that a woman can devote herself entirely to her professional life. But it is not true. If a child has some problems in school, his or her mother is to blame for it. Mothers need to talk, to play and to take care of their children. But professionally working women have not much time to do this. A child who is neglected may acquire some bad habits such as smoking, drinking alcohol or taking drugs. Obviously none of the mothers would like to have such trouble but when  mothers come back home after long hours spent in their offices and they still have some housework to do, they feel so exhausted that they are unable to notice their children' s problems.
Changes caused by feminism resulted in overwhelming sense of powerlessness to combine successfully the new image of a woman with the traditional one. Women no longer see themselves as a softly flowing stream of attraction and desire and beauty, soft quiet rivers of energy and peace. Under the influence of Women' s Liberation Movement they became isolated, selfish and lost creatures going to an extreme to pursue the impossible. Instead of independent females, feminism made them instruments for work and politics, unable to give true love and care to other people.
