<ICLE-PO-POZ-0035.2>

The unification of Europe is probably the most important and optimistic single event in the history of the continent. What has been a dream over the past centuries is now taking place, providing us at the same time with an opportunity for tentative predictions as to the future of the process. The unification is here limited historically to the post-war period. Even though the process could be regarded as continuous, a division into three stages would make it more understandable, as it would be reflected in the social and economic changes that have been taking place.
To begin with, the post-war Europe was faced with a need for a closer economic union as the only possible means of overcoming the disastrous effects of WWII. Likewise, in view of the ever- present danger of conflicts both between France and Germany, and between Western Europe and the Soviet Union, a political union was also a necessity. These were realized in the creation of the European Community of Steel and Coal on the economic level, accompanied with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on the political one. The ECSC soon came to be the foundation of the European Economic Community, the first international organization devoted to cooperation in the spheres of economy, politics, along with social and cultural matters. This foundation stage extended to the end of the 1950s, closing with a defined set of common policies.
It was already in the 1950s that the most poignant difficulties emerged. The inability to deal with the demands of particular countries, such as those of the U.K., France and Italy, and also the continuing budget deficit caused by the ineffective common Agricultural Policy clearly characterised the subsequent stage of development. It extended from 1960 to 1980 and was characterised by an expansion to what then constituted a body of ten European countries. All the same, the membership of new countries only led to a growing division into the richer and poorer member states. Such disproportion resulted in a wide-spread disillusionment among the richer nations.
Finally, the European Community was given a sound structure at the beginning of the 1980s. Began at the Treaty of Rome in 1982, these energetic attempts resulted in the signing of the Maastricht Treaty. Despite the continuing difficulties caused by the particular interests of member states, the union has grown stronger, with a number of successful policies put into effect. Such a course of development obviously does not lead us to expect a full union in the near future. Nevertheless, we have been shown that cooperation on a larger scale is possible, after all, and can result in common development.
