<ICLE-PO-POZ-0030.2>

Various pessimistic scholars - sociologists, anthropologists - have recently pointed out at the diverse phenomena and processes: increase in crime rate, deterioration of morals, disintegration of relationships between people as indications of a rapid future downfall of society created by man. Others, more optimistic, have claimed that a society as such is bound to survive and it is historically and instinctively determined.
The advocates of the prospective downfall of a society maintain that human beings are individual creatures and should not be forced to live in a net of interpersonal relations - in a society, which is according to them an artificial link between its members. And members of a society are arbitrarily ascribed to a place where they have been born. On the other hand, plain scientific researches have proved that a society is a very popular form of organisation of species in the animal world. This is so, because every living creature possesses an inborn necessity to have a sense of belonging - to a particular place or, more important, to a particular group. Human species is no exception to this rule - people are sociable creatures - they need even the sheer presence of each other to exist.
According to the pessimistic view the society (and especially a modern one) is driven by the internal disintegration processes that will make it fall apart. They cite mainly: the loss of a national consciousness, more and more competitive life, loss of significance of moral values - resulting in an increased number of crimes and the disintegration of the family - the fundamental part of a society. However, the sheer fact that the societies remain still so distinct and members of different societies differ in so many respects seems to confirm the idea that people long to be parts of a unique whole - the cherish the tradition of their own nation, they think their language should be spoken all over the world, etc.
A society as such is not probably going to fall apart - human inclination to join into groups is too deeply rooted. But it is definitely possible for modern (western) societies to disintegrate, though in remote future, where the highly competitive life prevents humans to be humane to themselves.
