<ICLE-PO-POZ-0023.2>

The job of a stewardess is one of the most controversial. People tend to judge it on appearances which are often deceptive. Only a person who has been working as a flight-attendant for an airline, may have an objective opinion about it. Taking into consideration all the aspects of this unconventional profession, one can sat that it is a perfect job for a woman.
At the beginning, it should be mentioned, that a stewardess' job has some disadvantages that may be disheartening but only for those people, who are not fit for such a job anyway.
What is discouraging for some is the irregular time of work and early wake-ups. Most of the people however, can learn self- discipline and flexibility and easily adjust to 3 o'clock wake-up calls and the night shifts. Moreover, flight-attendants get at least a 24 hour rest time, which is enough to fight the jet-lag and relax sufficiently.
What makes the flight unendurable is the dry air and the cigarette smoke in the cabin. Currently most of the airlines that are concerned about complaints of the non-smokers plan to ban smoking on all flights. For example, Delta Airlines on January 1th, prohibited smoking on all of its flights. A survey indicates that stewardesses, find their work far easier and enjoyable after that significant change.
Nevertheless all the disadvantages taken together can not equal the advantages that a flight attendant's job brings. First of all stewardess' job gives the opportunity to travel for free. Flight attendants can benefit from free passes or reduced employee- tickets on other airlines during the whole year. They take advantage of free travel for many reasons. The main one is pleasure. Rarely can one find a flight attendant who spends her vacation in her own country, Usually, given ample opportunities, she choses a destination of her preference in another part of the world, one that other people can only dream of.
Another reason for using free tickets is business. Most of the stewardesses, for example, do their shoppings in foreign countries, that are cheaper, such as America, Turkey or India. Travelling around the world, they know what is fashionable and can afford to wear the most elegant clothes since they are experts in finding places where they can buy them five times cheaper than in their own country.
Another advantage of flight-attendants' job is an opportunity to meet interesting people. An airplane is the most frequently used means of transport. Here a stewardess has direct contact with all kinds of passengers from deportees and emigrants to businessmen and celebrities such as actors, top models, politicians and even heads of state. Especially on the long-haul flights there is plenty of time for making new contacts and getting to know people's lives better. Sometimes those casual conversations end up in long lasting friendships. Worth mentioning is the fact, that many unmarried women find their husbands while airborne.
Travelling to international destinations requires a minimum of knowledge about them. Consequently flight attendants acquire wider horizons and they can certainly broaden them flying to various countries. They have an unusual opportunity to learn about their cultures and customs.
Moreover the flight attendants' job provides assertiveness and self-confidence in dealing with any situation which may occur while travelling. An airplane is a perfect place to obtain our inside to human psychology. Stewardesses soon become experts of human behaviors. Such an experience may be very useful later in life.
Safety is one of the most important advantages of this job. Many people simply do not realize how safe flying is. The odds of being in an airplane crash are ten times smaller than being run over by a car. Drunken or careless drivers, slippery roads and normal city traffic represent a much bigger a threat to human life.
The biggest advantage of flight-attendant's  job is free time. The Federal Aviation Administration does not allow stewardesses to fly more than 120 hours per month. In fact they fly much less, only up to fifteen days a month. Having a lot of free time, they can take another job, study, or take a good care of their children.
The position of a flight attendant is a perfect job for a woman because it gives the opportunity to travel and visit many unique places in the world, admire the wonders of nature, meet unusual people, it teaches flexibility, resiliance and self- discipline, it changes people, giving them self-confidence and immense experience. It is worth being flight attendant and fully enjoying life.
