<ICLE-PO-POZ-0031.1>

Animals communicate in different ways depending on which sense organs they developed best and on the natural environment to which they had to adapt. Communication is sharing information, causing others to respond to the stimuli which other creatures send. Information can be sent with the use of a variety of channels and stimuli: visual, auditory, chemical, or tactile.
Visual communication can occur in three general classes: an active movement, fixed postures and facial expressions. When one hen pecks toward another, it is an example of an active movement. When a bird wants to attract another bird by colorful feathers, it is communication with the use of fixed postures. Finally, when a wolf snarls because it does not want any other animal to enter its territory, it is sending the information by facial expression.
Auditory channels are also used in a variety of ways by different species of animals. Fish use high-pitched noises as a form of sonar for locating underwater objects as well as for communicating between individuals. Many insects produce noises through the vibration of wings. There is a wide range of frequency of these sounds, from low-pitched sounds to high-pitched noises produced by bats. Some of these noises are inaudible to other animals.
Next comes the channel of chemical communication which is used by animals in water and in air. The distribution of chemical communication is achieved through diffusion and currents. This kind of communicating has an important function, from the well known examples of sexual attractants in insects to the distribution of odorous urine and feces by mammals.
The tactile of communication is also important in many forms of sexual behavior and the care of the young in mammals. It plays a big role in the sexual behavior of insects: stroking movements of the antennae are a prominent part of sexual behavior in blister beetles.
Methods of communicating between animals are strongly dependent on natural environment and the mode of life of the particular species. There are varieties of communicative channels even within one group of animals. Fish and insects are good examples to illustrate this statement.
Within different kinds of fish one can find visual, auditory, tactile, and chemical stimuli of communication. Fish which live in shallow and clear water use visual channels of communicating, while fish of great depths and turbid water use auditory or vibratory stimuli. Sharks are able to communicate between themselves using chemical stimuli because they developed repellents from their tissues. Ocean fish make noises but auditory communication is useless in the mountain streams. Neither is this kind of communication used by fish in shallow and clear waters because vocalization could easily attract the attention of predators.
Insects use mainly odorous and auditory signals to communicate. Although they are sometimes very colorful, much of the visual stimulation is not related to social communication but to the protection against predators. Nocturnal insects, e.g. moths, use odorous signals. Among grasshopers and crickets auditory signals are the most significant.
From the foregoing it should be clear that the world of animal communication is very rich. What channels, stimuli and signals animals use to send information depends on their morphology and ecology. It is highly possible that there are kinds of animal communication which people do not know because these kinds are too difficult for people to detect.
