<ICLE-PO-POZ-0038.1>

Polish Parliament has recently become interested in drugs. This is not because the Members of Parliament started to like or to use them, but because they want to strengthen the law concerning drugs. The presently operating rules are too liberal, for they do not determine the maximum quantity of drugs one can possess for his or her own use. Thus, everybody may feel free to bring legally for example six kilos of heroine from abroad. The amended law, on the other hand, seems too rigid. It establishes three to five years of imprisonment for only possessing drugs, regardless of their quantity. Moreover, it does not differentiate between drugs. In other words, marijuana is treated exactly the same way as other drugs, although in comparison to the hardest ones it is almost harmless. On the contrary, it may even bring positive effects. Therefore, marijuana should be legalized in Poland.
There are, of course, many opponents of this idea. They say that if drugs mean a slow death, why they should not be legalized. If the recent fashion for drugs result from the too liberal law, what dramatic effects legalization will bring. They are afraid that their children will become addicted when drugs will be easily available. But they, just as the politicians, do not realize that marijuana differs from stranger drugs and is not that dangerous.
First of all marijuana is less harmful than most people should think. Not only is it the lightest of all drugs, but also it brings less danger to our constitution than alcohol or cigarettes. As a matter of fact, "grass" affects only a part of brain, while some other parts are stimulated by it. Therefore doctors call marijuana "easts for brain". In case of many, it awakes creativness in various fields. Alcohol, on the other hand, brings only disorder to thoughts and deeds; affects whole nervous system and poisons the body. However both alcohol and cigarettes are sold legally. Marijuana does not work like that and what is most important, it is not addictive!
In addition to not being very dangerous, "ganja" may have positive effects, which is scientifically proved, yet not very well known in society. Professor Kozakiewicz says that the drug is very helpfull in the process of curing of as much as twenty diseases. It eases the pains of those who suffer from cancer, for example. It does not cure directly, still it prevents from vomiting during chemotherapy. Next, marijuana helps the patients ill with asthma, multiple sclerosis, glaukomia and many others. It also eases rheumatic pains.
Finally, legislation seems to be the best solution to the whole problem. Marijuana is smoked by 26 mln people in the USA only. Nobody knows the number of "grass smokers" in Poland, a country of 38.4 mln citizens but it must be very high. Prohibition is not a remedy at all. It would bring higher demand and in consequence a development of illegal drug production and trafficking. Everybody knows that prohibition of an alcohol and cigarettes would not prevent from their use. Why should the situation with marijuana be different? After all, legalization does not mean that "smoking" will be approved of. It only means that marijuana users will not be treated as criminals.
In brief, legalization of marijuana is not an act against society or its members. Before it is done however, people should learn about its true values. Besides, there is no reason why marijuana should not be legalized while amphetamine or morphine - drugs of similar effects, though much stronger - appear on the list of legal medicines. On the other hand, neither alcohol nor cigarettes are neutral to our bodies. Nontheless their production and trade are legal and run by state. After all, it would not be fair to imprison somebody for at least three years for smoking "grass"! Anyway, there would not be enough place in all prisons for all the "smokers".
