<ICLE-PO-POZ-0009.2>

After many years of playing the role of villain and almost vanishing from the media drugs have again made an ominous comeback. There has recently been a sharp rise in drug use among teenagers but what's even more alarming is the rise of popular culture the glorifies drug use. Drugs are no longer taboo. They are discussed freely in media that do not spread anti-drug propaganda but rather than this they promote drugs and consider them as non-addictive and "not a big deal". After such encouragement young users do not hesitate to try the "stuff" and what confirms them in the conviction that there is nothing wrong in using it is the fact that they are too young to remember the drug users of 70's and their ugly, moral and physical downfall. The problem of drug using is more discernible today than it was 10 years ago. What's worse, drugs such as heroin are more potent these days because their purity has increased which makes them deadly, to say nothing of side-effects and other fatal diseases that drug use entails. The phenomena of drug use and drug pushing have already gone too far to be ignored. Nevertheless restrictions and regulations are helpless in its solitary fight with drugs. Through the law governments can to a certain extent control the supply of drugs but they cannot change the minds of young people which is the main task for youth idols, parents and teachers.
Drugs should be prohibited for practical but chiefly ethical reasons. It would be highly immoral to let the experiment like drug use or drug running go on without any constraints or control and consequently to allow millions of deaths. It is the law that should fight with drugs in the first place however it is not always successful in doing so and does not always suffice to fight back at the phenomenon. It would be rather naive to believe that regulations can put an end to drug use and drug trafficking. Jail rarely deters drug pushers from coming back to the "job". Furthermore, prohibition of drugs will not prevent drug growers from cultivating marijuana which seems to be the only source of income. No matter how strict the law can be it cannot itself tackle the problem. A lot is to be done by other institutions and people who might find the task easier to solve with help of regulations. Whereas the primary aim of the law should be to at least hinder an access to drugs, tighten patrol on the borders where trafficking in drugs goes on, control their cultivation by looking for illicit plantations and impose severe penalties in case of spotting one, compensate drug growers with cash for not planting drugs. Finally, as long as drugs are illegal, the belief prevails that they are not safe and unlike other medications they are deadly.
The law is helpless in its fight against drugs. After certain steps have been taken by governments next turn belongs to parents teachers and most of all to media; pop and rock singers in particular. Overdosing on drugs is depictable chiefly among teenagers which is hardly surprising after taking into consideration the fact that the foremost groups such as Cypress Hill demand in their songs liberation of smokers and promote marijuana as in the song "Legalize it" or "Black Sunday". The same stance have taken other groups such as Nirvana or Metallica, both have com publicy for legalization. In order to cut down on drug use the rockers and pop musicians should keep on singing about cocaine or marijuana but with a totally different approach towards it. Instead of glorifying drugs they should sing about their deadly nature and devastating side-effects. Anti-drug propaganda can be spread not only by individual singers but the whole educational system can be engaged in it. However the problem of many teachers is that they deem drugs the taboo which is wrong because by doing so they encourage adolescents to perceive drugs as a forbidden fruit for which they might really reach. Teachers should not be afraid of discussing the problem, reaching for specialistic sources and trying to prove that it is indeed "white death". Ultimately parents can also do a lot about it. They can take some steps to make their children give up the habit, which is not such a Herculean task as it was in the past. In the past drug users were followers of certain ideology that promoted peace, joy and friendship. These ideals were at odds with contemporary world of wars and cruelty, which justifies their escape into drugs in search of consolation. Today drug users are not guided by any kind of ideology. They take drugs just for fun. Those who do it are usually bored, poorely educated, aimless young people. If that is the case than parents should take care of the education of their children, their hobbies, interests and accordingly channel their energy and interests into positive activities.
Drugs re-entered the social life but this time not as vicious ones associated usually with hippie groups but as benign ones taken by people regardless of age and occupation, during parties or in disco-clubs helping them to perceive the world as a perfect and beautiful place and allowing them to feel optimistic about everything they see. No wonder that adolescents without inhibition more and more reach for drugs. They are too young to remember the downfall of drug users of 70's and perhaps too ignorant to know the other, more murky side of potent drugs that step by step wreck the brain. Meanwhile smugglers are thriving because demand is now flourishing. It seems that the time has come when drug taking and pushing have become a large scale phenomena and must no longer be ignored.
