<ICLE-PO-POZ-0007.1>

George Orwell in his Animal Farm wrote: "All men are equal: but some are more equal than others", showing how gifted he was in observing society and human nature. Neither society nor human nature have changed since the novel was written. One can easily notice today, even in democratic countries where "all people are equal in the face of law", that people are still far from being really equal. The most influential factors that make people unequal are: race, sex and money.
The color of skin has always differentiate people. The strange thing is, however, that the most obvious reason why people are of different colors, that is because of the climate zone they or they ancestors come from, is the least popular one. White men are usually those who think of themselves as superior because they were the ones who conquered less developed nations. The whites regarded other races as worse, unable to equal them. This situation was reflected in the laws of many countries. Nowadays in democratic countries people of different colors have the same rights. However, still many people are so conceited or biased that they cannot accept equality, and discriminate races different than theirs. The discrimination can take place in neighborhoods, schools or places of work. It can take the form of lower payments, worse chances in competition with other races (e.g. while looking for a job), or not including people of different color into neighborhood communities or social meetings. It shows that introducing equal laws does not mean real equality in society, and changing people's minds takes much more time and work than changing laws, and still is not always successful.
The second factor that makes people unequal is sex. The legal situation seems to be similar to the one described above: the rights are equal, however life shows that it is far to real equality. Men's and women's different position in society is rooted mainly in their traditional upbringing, the prejudices concerning their role in society, and the mutual misunderstanding. Even though now women are free to choose their own ways of life, and they do not have to follow the traditional pattern of being only wives and mothers, it is still very often more difficult for women to gain the positions equal to those men have in their professional lives. Women are often discouraged to start their careers, sometimes are paid less or forced to choose between having a successful career or having a family. So, the saying that a woman has to be twice as good as a man to gain the same position is surely not an exaggeration but the illustration of what being "more equal" means.
The last, but for sure not least factor that differentiate people is money. In fact this is the most powerful factor which can overcome race and sex differences. Let alone all the illegal action that can lead to multiplying a fortune, having power and influence. Having money means independence from anybody (e.g. parents or employer), possibility to decide (as a shareholder or the boss of enterprise), freedom to buy all the necessary or unnecessary goods, and the freedom to travel. Money also makes it possible to run for an office and to win. A high position in the world of politics means power and influence again. The race or sex of a person who is really wealthy is not that important, and the person is "much more equal" than the rest.
Equal rights for everyone in a democratic country seem to take equality for granted. However, not only law, but also people living in the country, with their prejudices and fears have to change to allow the real equality. It is possible when sex and race are concerned: people can learn to tolerate and respect one another. The situation is a little different with wealth and power. Probably in this case the Orwell's sentence that some people are more equal than others will always be true. Or maybe the author wanted to tell us that total equality could never exist.
