<ICLE-PO-POZ-0018.1>

We live surrounded by objects and systems we take for granted. The science has rationalised things and created the order according to which the life on the Earth is going on. As a result , dreams tend to be treated as frills and frivolities and people pay a lip service to the inner life of imagination. Although modern world is so much dominated by science and technology , some people keep on saying there is a place for imagination.
Opponents to this claim give many reasons to support their opposition. They aim at proving that imagination does not contribute appreciably to human life. They believe that imagination does not help tackle basic life problems such as unemployment or lack of money. They also put forward an argument that imagination is of no help in fostering interhuman relationships. Finally , they claim that imagination does not serve as an effective means of  creating equitable society.
In response to the argument that imagination does not help to struggle with life problems , one can say that in fact it is the only beneficent force capable of running up against a host of unpleasant troubles. On the whole the world economic situation today is traumatic: percentage of  unemployment is on the steady increase and a lot of people live below the poverty line. These people are aware of their poor standards of living  and  bend over backwards to forget about complexities of everyday life. Certainly , the poor cannot lessen the pain of their miserable existence while watching all the technological inventions in the shop windows or on TV commercials. Therefore , they excite the imaginary visions of living far from modern technologically-dominated world somewhere on the beautiful island covered with evergreen plants and surrounded by deep blue ocean. They move themselves into quiet meditation so as to escape from the harsh reality where technology deepens their poverty. If they did not have any dreams , it would be extremely difficult for them to lead their lives.
When it comes to the view that imagination is not a means of significant contribution to interhuman relationships , one can say that each " toy "of the electronic wonderland isolates us from one another. Spending long hours in front of a computer screen - probably the best invention of the 20th century `s - moves people into self-seclusion. This form of entertainment seems to be a sheer waste of time in that it brings about a mechanical , disillusioned mentality and inhibits emotional development. People cannot realize their visions about friendship when sitting in front of video and thinking passively , like robots devoid of feelings. Thus it should not be machines that are most needed by a man , but it should be another man as P.Holbach , a famous artist once said " a man needs a man only to lead his life happily ".Only when people did not make a considerable effort to transfer their mirages into real life , would they not be able to stand a chance of  forming constructive relationships with others.
To believe that imagination does not enable us to savour the sweet smell of  equality would be readily accepted if in fact people did nothing to create equitable society. Through history of mankind people have been setting laws concerning human rights on the basis of their imagination of the fair world. The governments of the affluent countries do their best to relieve the suffering of the citizens of the Third World and post-communist countries. Various aid organisations such as UNICEF , UNESCO  or WHO have been established to help people of different races and nationalities. In addition to that there are many private benefactors. People who dream lead happy lives and their inner happiness affects positively those who suffer. In this way people all over the world face a magnificent opportunity of building equal-right society.
Apart from the above mentioned , imagination moves us to realize our underdeveloped potentialities. People wish their deep-hidden dreams came true and often make a tremendous effort to achieve their imaginative goals. They cotton on the importance of self-development and self-esteem. Therefore , by means of their dreams they aim at constant altering their egoes as they feel a strong desire to live in unison with themselves and others. So , imagination is not only a factor which serves the individual needs , but also a factor which help to obviate the needs of others.
On no account should imagination be left aside. Just as we think of basic needs of life such as food or clothes , we should also think of satisfying our spiritual needs which offer people benefits of security. With imagination we can alleviate excruciating pain of humdrum life and help each other in creating trouble-free society. Thus , imagination should not be regarded as a weapon if a fool who cannot come up against his or her problems. It should be perceived as a means of overcoming the disadvantages of our urban-industrialised , still imperfect society.
