<ICLE-PO-POZ-0005.2>

There is no denying the fact that humans are the best developed creatures living on earth. Though physiologically they do not differ considerably from other mammals, the development of their brain functions has put humans high above any other species on earth. However, if one looks around at the progress of science and technology as well as at social relations in city conurbations, one might wonder whether mankind has chosen the right direction. Among individuals concerned with the problem there are those who believe in human power to solve any environmental or social difficulties. There are also those who maintain that the environmental and social structure people live in at present will some day crack and disintegrate.
Those holding an optimistic view towards the future of the civilisation argue that the power of human intelligence that has created a sophisticated science and technology will also tackle bad effects this development might ever bring. To illustrate, they believe that developing technology will find ways to reduce the harmful influence of pollution. The optimists also maintain that the progress of medical research will eventually discover means of treating the majority of modern plagues. Looking back at the development of civilisation during the last few decades, they conjecture that future decades will bring humans more comfortable and longer lives.
However, those in opposition are worried that scientific and technological progress has followed, to some extent, the bad route. As far as environment is concerned, technology is in many cases powerless to repair the damages that have been caused to the environment. Pollution in big city conurbations results in new diseases, causing earlier death in some individuals. The loss of many green areas has led to the situation that cannot be repaired by sophisticated inventions of modern technology. Overall, humanity may face the integration of the environment and structure of life on earth on a catastrophic scale.
If a social point of view is considered, those who are in favour of the present situation, believe that the modern human being lives in a natural social environment he has managed to work out throughout the past centuries. Those in favour of contemporary civilisation believe that, in spite of some social disturbances, humans are nowadays less violent and cruel than in the past - when they were more savages and thoughtless creatures struggling for their survival. The development of civilisation with its more humane approach to an individual, with the system of rules that protect the weak, or at least try to do so, is one of the greatest achievements that did not exist in the past on such a scale and, what is more, does not exist in an animal world.
The opponents, however, prophesing the fall and disintegration of social environment strongly maintain that humans have put themselves in a situation which is largely unnatural to them. They compare human beings to animals in captivity, as opposed to the required status quo, namely, animals under normal conditions, in their natural habitats. Those who see many disadvantages of contemporary, mostly city social structure put forward an argument of increasing violence and deviant behaviour resulting from pressures of living under social pressure - in "human zoo". They point to examples of parents abusing their children, people suffering from eating disorders, a variety of bizarre neuroses and psychoses, increasing suicides etc. The above examples are considered by them to be the true "achievements" of modern social structure in environments where people are confined, without a space they do need to function normally.
Even though it is not possible to refute arguments pointing to various achievements humankind has attained so far, it seems obvious that the present status quo is not a desirable one. Looking at health phenomenon like AIDs or environmental one like the ozone layer one can see that some of the present problems have got out of human control. The only solution to avoid a catastrophe is to change the direction that has been followed for too long.
