<ICLE-PO-POZ-0029.2>

People going to stay in another country, be it for a short or long time, should be prepared to pass through several stages of adjustment to the new culture. Some of them go through the adjustment cycle quickly, like children who are easily adaptable to a new environment, but others may find it hard to adapt themselves to a different reality.
The first stage of adjustment takes place before people start to travel. They imagine themselves in new situations, think about the stereotyped views on the country they are going to visit or stay in, try to anticipate all the difficulties in communicating with people speaking different language and representing different mentality. This is the first attempt to adjust to the change.
The second stage is the first impression of the foreign country. Even if the reality fits our expectations we experience a kind of shock at the new culture. The best example is the food that frequently makes the visitors' stomachs turn up. People from the northern countries may find repulsive the idea of eating frogs and snails and diverse frutti di mare. The other thing is weather. Those who go to visit England are bound to be shocked at the average rainfall in this country.
Another aspect of this stage of adjustment is the first impression of the mentality of the inhabitants of the foreign country. We can be, for instance, positively surprised by the openess and warmth of French people and shocked by the cold manners and selfishness of the English.
The next stage is getting to know the foreign country better and, possibly, fitting in the new culture at last (though there are people who never adjust to a new culture, i.e., never pass this stage of adjustment). This is the time when we can ultimately get acquainted with the mentality of people and verify or deny our first impressions. We find, e.g., the English people different - reserved, but trustworthy, stable, having principles. While the French keep their reputation of being nice and friendly but underneath - not very responsible and trustworthy.
In front of the unifying tendencies, in Europe at least, it would be tempting to think that the cultural boundaries, more important than the real ones, will be disappearing and the phenomenon of cultural shock cease to exist. But, conversely, most people become more and more nationally conscious, aware of their individuality and it is possible that the cultural adjustment will become ever more difficult.
