<ICLE-PO-POZ-0028.1>

Nowadays the media regularly cover animal rights and the actions taken by different groups in the protection of various species. One of the main reasons for this is the aggressive nature of some animal protection groups. Demonstrations, pickets, break- ins and letter bombs are becoming an increasingly large part of media coverage of animal liberation. Over the past decade or so, this amount of coverage of animal rights has resulted in more awareness by the general public. Therefore, it seems it is necessary for animal right groups to resort to militant activities to get people to realise the need for animal protection.
Some opponents of militant animal protection groups say that such illegal acts as the destroying of vivisection laboratories by activists is just simple vandalism. There is also a fear that the damaging of these laboratories is putting into danger the lives of the people who work in such places. One such example of these forceful activities is the burning down of a vivisection laboratory by animal rightists in Milton Keynes in 1973. As one knows aggressive behaviour by rightists has increased public knowledge about the protection of animals. Normally, any laboratory that has been destroyed by animal liberators was owned by large corporations which can easily afford to rebuild and fix these buildings. Still, in the process of rebuilding the laboratories the animal rightists may have saved the lives of thousands of creatures. For instance, if one damages a lab, the owners of the laboratory have to increase their security and that is less money to spend on animal experiments. That is only a short-term aim. The longer-term aim would be to escalate such events to a stage where all these industries are under threat and cannot operate.
More opposition comes from the belief that humans are far greater than animals. Therefore, in the opponents' point of view, it is too time-consuming to be involved with militant animal rightists in the protection of a different species. Some people believe, that animals are of no real consequence and that human life is the only thing that should be protected. Still, at least due to forceful activities by animal liberators a small amount of the general public have become more aware about the rights for living creatures. One has to realise that humans are only one species among many on earth, yet humans totally dominate the other animals by confinement, torture and death. Although in general, people care about the rights of living creatures, sometimes it takes an illegal act by animal rightists, for people to become more involved in the protection of animals.
While the traditional campaigning methods for the protection of animals have been in use for over a hundred years, sometimes they are not that successful. Therefore, illegal activities such as the damaging of laboratories or criminal actions to grab media attention have been necessary. For example, the attack on the Charles River Laboratories by activists caused several thousand pounds' worth of damage. In this attack not only did the laboratory lose money, but also various lab animals were stolen. So, such a militant activity affected animal research industry a lot more than traditional campaigning could ever do.
Although the protection of animals by forceful actions is threatening and illegal, it is also indispensable. What is important is that animal cruelty is stopped in all its different aspects such as vivisection, blood-sports, bullfighting, etc. Ultimately the best way to prevent animal suffering is in militant movements by animal liberators.
