<ICLE-PO-POZ-0011.2>

Any experiments in medicine that overlap ethics create an atmosphere of uneasiness and tension. The issue of using fetal tissue in transplants is one of such extremely controversial moral problems. If this problem is to be looked at in an objective way we must take into consideration arguments both "for" and "against" it.
The curative effects of fetal tissue were discovered in the early fifties, though scientists has started experimenting with some parts of the human foetus early in the nineteenth century. It turned out that many diseases which caused great problems to doctors or were found incurable might be treated quite successfully with the help of the tissue. Fetal cells are unlikely to be rejected by a recipient's immune system and that is why they are perfect for a host of scientific and medical uses. These cells grow quickly, divide rapidly and may become a kidney, a liver cell or anything else. The use of fetal cells seems to be the only successful way of treating patients suffering from Parkinson's disease, Hurber's syndrome and other neurological disorders.
Medical experiments have also proven that fetal cells transplanted into diabetics helped the patients' pancreas produce the vital hormone insulin. As a result these patients require less insulin than before. There also about one hundred and fifty genetic disorders that can be corrected before birth with fetal tissue younger than sixteen weeks. These examples show that the advantages coming from using aborted foetuses cannot be questioned. In many cases it is the only hope for people suffering from deadly diseases.
There is one more argument for the use of aborted foetuses in medicine. There is a huge number of abortions every year. What can be done with the remains? Can we simply bury the organs and tissues if they might be used to save others' lives? Using them for medical purposes seems to be a better solution.
This is one side of this important problem. The other is equally important. If a human foetus is used in medical experiments it is treated as an inanimate object, a coin that circulates on the bio-market and as such is deprived of the right to live, to enjoy life and to decide about the future. Some people provide us with the frightening vision of a future society in which medical treatment is governed by a human organ market where one can sell, buy, exchange or donate what is needed. The bioengineering industry would use the raw material in the production of medicines. A depressing conclusion is that only the strong, who were lucky to be born, would benefit from it.
There is also a question who should have the right to decide whether an aborted foetus may be used in medical research or not. Many people think that mothers should decide. Some women are afraid of the situation in which their bodies would be treated as fetal factories and their role would be to provide the raw material.
Fetal-tissue transplantation cannot become an unsupervised private industry using foetuses for both medical and nonmedical purposes, A partial solution to the problem is to shift the centre of investigation from fetal tissue onto its potential substitute. And the government should fund a fetal-tissue bank to keep research and transplantation carefully insulated against commercialisation.
