<ICLE-PO-POZ-0010.2>

Gene experimentation is one of the dangers of today's civilization. Although this achievement has fascinated both scientists and average people, it may be also treacherous. By cloning, which is transferring new genes to embryos and developing them or by changing the code of chromosomes scientists can collapse a ballance of organisms. Thus gene experimentation means "playing with nature", modelling human beings and environments according to current needs without predicting the consequences. Indeed, the consequences of such process cannot be predicted. Besides, people may use it for their own benefits, regardless of many other dangers. In this light people should become more reluctant towards experimenting with genes and be aware not only of its advantages but also disadvantages.
The disadvantages of experimenting with genes may appear distructive for humanity and environment. As a strong intervension in natural traits of all organisms, it can evoke many mutations. By cloning which aims at improving those traits, the undesired qualities could be developed. It also applies to experiments carried on viruses, which may cause outburst of new diseases instead of counteracting them. Gene experiments, which are to regulate and improve fertility, may violate the population balance on earth. This would lead to increase of population and starvation. For all those reasons gene experiments should be perceived as a danger to the human civilization.
Beside those disadvantages gene experimentation should be limited as it is immoral and provides many possibilities for its misuse. Experimenting with genes is associated with using animals and human embryos. Manipulating with life may be very counterproductive for people, because this may lead to creating "embryo business". Moreover, ability to bring to life new species of bacteria, is a strong temptation for developing biological weapon, that could serve for military purposes. This makes gene experimentation not only scientific problem but also serious moral issue.
The biological and moral dangers that experimentation with genes creates make it a disquieting problem. Although some view it as a chance for some improvement on earth, it may be also very counterproductive. That is why, people should realize all the dangers. Their knowledge does not give them right to violate nature. Only responsibility and longsightedness can give them this right. However, nowadays gene experiments should be limited until people become more critical towards it.
