<ICLE-PO-POZ-0048.1>

Human life is becoming more and more difficult. Nowadays many people feel alienated and alone and they find some help in reading. Reading newspapers or magazines makes us feel we are not alone in the world and that there are others who also have hopes, fears, joys and sorrows. Various kinds of newspapers that are nowadays available everywhere reflect human nature and human lives. Almost every magazine or newspaper contains articles that are very optimistic in their nature, that make people laugh or just be happy but at the same time there are articles that are so pessimistic that make people think, be sad or even cry.
No matter what kind of newspaper one takes she or he can easily find the subjects that draw her/his attention and that are very optimistic. When one looks at the pages of Time, Newsweek or Polish Gazeta Poznanska she/he finds a number of articles about scientific inventions, fascinating films, new found medicines, etc. These articles are very optimistic and supporting and as a result people who read them feel that the world and life are not so cruel and that there are others around us who are doing some good job. When one reads, for example, an article about the family who was struggling with the lack of money but finally the man found a good job thanks to somebody's help, he or she feels better, and his faith in others is renewed. After reading, the reader realizes that there are others who have difficulties but they can be solved and this makes him know that he is not alone.
But the world and our lives do not consist only of pleasant things and of stories with happy-ends. There are also sorrows, tragedies and about these issues one can also find articles in newspapers. Nowadays, many articles are devoted to murders, assaults, rapes, wars, etc, and these dark sides of human nature are also described in newspapers. As a result, when one reads an article about the war in Yugoslavia he/she is shocked but at the same time forced to think about the existence and the humans. These articles also make us feel we are not alone, that there are other nations, other people who suffer from many tragedies.
Summing up, I'd like to write once again that newspapers and magazines reflect the world and human lives and at the same time when we read various happy, joyful articles we know that we are not alone and while reading bad or tragic information we also realize that there are others who have problems and it's not only us that live in the world.
