<ICLE-PO-POZ-0027.2>

The nuclear power issue has always aroused a fierce debate in the world. The supporters of the idea of using nuclear energy point out that it is less damaging to the world than energy generated from fossil fuels and that there is no threat of nuclear fuel running out. On the other hand, others warn that nuclear power and the radioactive waste and the radioactive waste of nuclear power plants may eventually cause the extermination of plant and animal life. The awareness of the risk nuclear power plants pose to the environment, of the increasing problems with nuclear waste, and of the costs connected with the plants, as well as of the link between nuclear power and nuclear weapons makes more and more people convinced that the disadvantages of nuclear power plants are greater than their advantages.
First of all, nuclear power industry is dangerous to people and their environment. Nuclear power plants are never really safe because small amounts of radioactive substances always leak from reactors into the air, soil and water. What is more, a serious nuclear accident, whether during transport or production, can cause a major catastrophe resulting in the contamination of large areas around the reactor for several hundred million years. The radiation could then lead to genetic changes and abnormalities in wildlife and people, to changes in the life of organisms and to the increase of fatal diseases in people.
Second, nuclear power plants produce large quantities of radioactive wastes for which no safe disposal exists. They can remain radioactive for thousands of years, and the y are lethal.
Third, the costs of building and exploiting of nuclear power plants are extremely high. A nuclear power plant costs about twice the cost of a conventional power station. Even more must be spent to dispose of nuclear waste and dismantle old power stations. It is also very expensive to reduce the effects of nuclear accidents, for example, the Soviet Union had to pay up to 10 billion pounds to clean up the contaminated zone around the destroyed power station.
Fourth, it is now evident that there is a link between nuclear power and nuclear weapons. Nuclear power plants provide armies with plutonium and other radioactive materials for building nuclear bombs. The expansion of nuclear power raises the risk of the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
In spite of all these disadvantages, some point out than nuclear power plants have advantages.
First, nuclear power is less damaging to the environment than energy generated from fossil fuels as far as the emission of greenhouse gases is concerned. Nuclear power plants release about twenty five times less carbon dioxide than coal-fired stations.
Second, nuclear power plants fuel will never run out. Uranium, for example, exists in large enough quantities to last for at least another five thousand years, while oil is being consumed at such a rate that its known reserves will run out in about forty years.
Although nuclear power plants have some supporters, the number of their opponents is still growing. It is because with each new piece of information on radio or TV people become more and more aware that nuclear power industry is dangerous, inefficient and expensive. For example, if you take into consideration radiation after nuclear power plant accident and its long-term effects for the environment, the fact that nuclear power plants release about twenty five times less carbon dioxide than coal-fired stations, becomes an unimportant one. Nuclear power is dangerous not only to the environment, but also to the world's peace. It is nuclear power plants that provide materials for building nuclear bombs. There is no point in investing huge sums of money to build such a dangerous and inefficient industry. It is true that there will be no problems with providing fuel for nuclear power stations because its reserves are ever-lasting, but it should also be pointed out that nuclear fuel could easily be replaced by sun, wave or tidal fuel. This type of fuel is much safer than nuclear power which can spell a complete disaster for the environment if not properly controlled.
