<ICLE-PO-POZ-0032.2>

The warming of the Earth's climate is already a part of our reality. The Antarctic ice cap is melting faster than it can be replaced by snowfall, and many European countries experience the unusual rises of temperature during the summer season. These are the results of  ozone loses in the stratosphere, which increase the risk of skin cancers and damage to plants. The ozone layer protects against cancer by absorbing the sun's ultraviolet radiation, which means that its existence determines our existence. Nevertheless, it seems to have been losing its wonderful qualities recently, or, to be more precise, it has been actually disappearing. There is no way to patch the ozone hole in the sky at present, but we can prevent it from getting bigger and bigger.
First of all, we should deal with it on the individual level. Having known that major CFC (chlorofluorocarbons) offenders are aerosol sprays, refrigeration, vehicle air conditioning and cleaning agents, we can take a few wise decisions. The most obvious is to stop using aerosols using freon. There are many deodorants with the sign "ozone friendly" available in the shops. It is up to us. It is the same story with buying a refrigerator. We must forget about refrigerators containing CFC-11 and CFC-12, even if they are cheaper. It is simply not worthwhile, since the smaller the prize, the bigger the ozone hole (more or less). Another ingenious decision would be to stop using cars in favour of public transport. Recent research shows, however, that this one occurs to be too drastic to be taken. The only thing that can be done about it is then, at least, using catalizators and the petrol of lead-free variety. One more thing that can be done individually is to buy cleaning agents that are biodegradable.
There is also a lot to be done on the national level. In the first place, each country needs to switch to CFC-free technologies. Needless to say, this means producing ozone friendly sprays and refrigerators. However, there are still many old type refrigerators in use, especially in the countries of Eastern Europe and the foreign Soviet Union. They have an additional task, therefore, to establish systems for recycling CFCs from discarded refrigerators and automobile air conditioners. Such systems for the first time appeared in Germany, and they are been worked on in Sweden, Switzerland and Netherlands. Another source of ozone losses are power plants. The logical conclusion then is that it would be better for humans to turn to alternative sources of energy like solar, wind or water energy. Such attempts, of course, present a problem, since energy supply depends not only on available resources, but on economics and politics. Nevertheless, one should never give up so easily. It is also essential, on the national level, to make young people aware of the tragic situation  they may occur in  unless they switch themselves to the ecological way of life.
Finally, there must be cooperation between countries from all over the world, regarding this problem. It must be stressed that the industrialised countries that are responsible for the ozone depletion should help the poorer nations in solving the environmental problems. Besides, scientists from different countries should support each other in search for substances and processes that can replace CFC-based systems without doing further harm to the stratosphere.
Since the scientists have not invented the way to patch this hole yet, the only thing we can do is trying not to enlarge it. The key-words here are: acid rain, ozone depletion, greenhouse effect and radioactivity. They all come as a result of air pollution. In other words, we must stop polluting the air. The funny thing is that no sane person will deny that pollution is a threat, but lessening that pollution is hard. If you abandon driving, you must take the bus, cycle or walk, but it is not so comfortable or convenient. We tend to think that one car more, or one less on the road does not make any difference. No. It should not be our motto. We should rather bear in mind the following statement: "Damage the environment and it will damage you", and not let it come true.
