<ICLE-PO-POZ-0041.1>

Opium is a highly-addictive kind of drug, whose effect is sleepiness, indifference, detachment. The comparison of opium to religion seems to be quite justifiable when we look back on history and the part religion has played in it. When we think of the masses blindly following their religious leaders as if unable to reason themselves; complying with their orders, too stupefied and mentally blind to defy them.
At present, at the doorstep of the 21st century, at the time when religion has considerably declined and its position has weakened decisively, the masses are no longer liable to be addicted to religion. In this case, is there anything that replaced religion and acts as the opium for the masses, a new stupifier the masses need so much?
Undeniable, television plays an enormous part in the lives of the 20th century people. However, can it be compared to the addictive role of religion in the previous centuries? Have the masses assigned the role of the new opium to television? The only way to find out is by selecting examples from the past and from the present, and finding similarities.
Most importantly, taking opium as any kind of addictive drug makes you utterly dependent on it. That is the obvious and inevitable side effect. You cannot at will make yourself stop taking it. On the contrary, your organism demands more and more. According to this purely biological process the masses used to be utterly addicted to religion as it had unlimited control and exerted extreme influence over them. At some point people became too weak to resist it.
Nowadays, the collocation 'TV addiction' does not require any further explanation. People do suffer from it on a large scale and even worse, most of them are totally oblivious of that. A TV set supervises all the branches of human life: it entertains, teaches, informs. People more and more often tend to be incapable of performing all those activities without the aid of television. It is easier to relax by watching a run-of-the-mill show than by reading a good book. Similarly, it is easier to face the difficult problems, to overcome them when being on drugs. At least, that is what hosts of youngsters believe in. When you are feeling like having a good time, television is nearby. You are not on your own, you have your inseparable companion, which is however far from being your genuine friend. It has simply enslaved you.
In the former times the masses sought knowledge in the Bible and among the educated elite, namely the priests, monks. The knowledge derived straight from religion what the church imposed was holy and unshakeable. Similarly, television teaches us everything; starting with cooking, ending in morality. Moreover, it is the main adviser, people no longer go to their parsons or priests to ask where "to invest" their money. The advertisement branch is in fact a separate industry, it will always show you the right way. Furthermore, children are brought up in front of the small screen. It is not the morel values of their parents, consequently, but the moral values of the screen that are transferred to the children and automatically adopted by them. Is television not as powerful as religion once used to be? The right to educate the youth makes it an extremely influential institution, I daresay its power in this field even transcends that of education.
In the older times, families' lives were organised according to the masses at church and common Bible readings.At present their lives are arranged according to the TV programmes. Instead of common readings and discussions of the passages from the Bible, they enjoy common TV watching and discussing the conduct of the characters of popular soap operas.
There is one more facet of the impact of television on the masses, which is undeniably of primary importance. Religion was undoubtedly the driving force for the masses. The history is rich in examples to prove it. People would do anything in the name of their religion, their God. The superior power was concentrated in the hands of religious leaders, the stupefied believers would follow. Thousands could participate in the crusades, could massacre other human beings, the most fierce wars could be fought on religious grounds. People, as if blinded, did not question, did not object as if "opiumized", in a state of coma, unconsciousness.
Nowadays, in the age of religious decline, the unquestionable leadership of religion has been conveyed to television that can stupefy the masses equally successfully and in such a way that they are apt to fall for everything it presents. To provide a good example; Oliver Stone's latest film <R> excellently depicts how threatening the influence of television can be. The most ruthless and unscrupulous murderers are glorified by the mass media, are elevated to the status of divinities. Hosts of youngsters openly state their admiration for the killers, look up to them, even worship them.
Summing up, it is obvious that what we witness at the twilight of this century is the mass TV addiction. The society consists of ninety five per cent TV maniacs for whom the small screen means everything and which controls every sphere of their lives. They are refuse containers in the sense that they are fed with all the rubbish, disposed of, and are too passive to object to it. They are also like opium-takers in the sense that they are constantly too drowsy to become aware that they have deliberately become such refuse containers and the only thing they do is to digest the rubbish.
