<ICLE-PO-POZ-0046.1>

Science has been an aspect of every advanced human civilization. An increasing amount of evidence suggests that the priests of the ancient Egypt or of the Maya or Aztec civilizations of America were surprisingly skilled surgeons, clever astronomers and mathematicians. They used their knowledge to support or override rulers. Generally, however, they employed their powers to establish and preserve the law and order in the state.
Modern science is, similarily to the ancient one, prone to abuse. The implementation of Einstein's law of relativity in the construction of H-bomb being the most telling example. Yet, it points to the fact that it is not the pure science, but its application, that may become a menace.
The development of science has always been assisted by parallel developments in technology. These, in turn, often met with strong social resistance or even violent actions conducted by the workers made redundant due to the increasing mechanisation of industry and other branches of economy. Moreover, the novel inventions were rarely properly tested before implementation. This resulted in terrifying catastrophes, which, on the one hand, incited fervent opposition to the new, and, on the other were viewed as the reason for further scientific research.
At this point humans realized that any modification of nature causes side effects, which cannot be entirely foreseen. Not only the application of science, but scientific experiments themselves have begun to present a danger to nature and hence to ourselves. Such a situation calls for more scientific investigations, so that we could protect what is left. The inevitable circularity of such reasoning is striking.
It seems that humanity has been caught in a trap of forcing order in chaoes, and is now facing the results of this foul attempt. Nonetheless people cannot cease to try to control and adapt nature to their needs. They can only pay more attention to the truth that the more cautiously science is applied, the less menacing it will become.
