<ICLE-PO-POZ-0024.1>

It is Monday afternoon in October 1995. Rarely has the entrance gate to the Rialto cinema - one of bigger cinemas in Poznan - been so crowded. One could wrongly guess that this  is a line  for a best-selling movie. Actually, people in the crowd are picketing to prevent other people from getting in and buying tickets. The movie drawing this crowd is The Priest by Antonine Bird, a film that has aroused intense opposition in the Catholic Church in Poland. What is it about this film that has offended Catholic sensitivities?
The film takes place in a small Catholic parish in one of the poor districts of an Irish city. The name of the city is never mentioned. In this way, the film director wanted to emphasize that the parish shown in the movie is a parish, one of many, perhaps the one you belong to. A new priest comes to work in the parish. He is young, full of ideas and brimming with energy. Gradually, he gets more and more discouraged and doubtful about his vocation. As the story develops, he becomes aware of his parishioners' immorality and corruption. Finally he finds out that his colleague, the old priest working in the same parish, is having a relationship with his housekeeper. Unexpectedly, the young priest, who has seemed to be above human weakness so far, turns out to be a gay and enters a relationship with a friend met at the disco. A sub-plot  in  the  movie  involves the incestuous abuse of a teenage girl by her father.
The Priest was introduced to Polish cinemas at the beginning of October 1995, and very soon its subject became very controversial. First, newspapers started to discuss it. In all Poznan dailies, one could find reviews of the movie. They were not focused on its artistic values, but on its contents. The film director touched upon such topics as homosexuality, incest and sexual relations between a priest and his housekeeper. Stirred on by the media, these issues opened the question whether the movie profaned Christian values and offended the Catholic Church. As one can easily guess, the Polish Church and the political right found the film offensive and wanted to have it banned. Catholics were preached to in Sunday services to boycott the film. They were also asked to sign letters protesting against the showing of the movie in Polish cinemas. Public demonstrations and pickets were organized in front of bigger cinemas not only in Poznan but also in Warsaw and other Polish cities.
Although there was a lot of opposition to the movie in society, there was no bias in the way the media presented the whole issue. They did it rather fairly and objectively. Apart from people who protested, quite a few people were given an opportunity to speak for the movie. In one of the issues of  Gazeta Wyborcza, an interview with a well-known Polish theology professor was published. He assessed the movie as definitely anti-clerical, but not anti-Christian. He emphasized that the criticism contained in the film is aimed at the church organization and structure, not at Christian values. They are not diminished but propagated in the movie, he asserted. The examples of people representing such values as compassion or brotherly love are the young and the old priests. Another interview where positive remarks were made about  the film was broadcast on a popular radio station Radio "S". There was also a call-in allowing people to express their opinions on the movie. Among fifteen callers there was only one who spoke against the movie. In view of the future reaction to the film, why were people picketing and demonstrating in front of cinemas? One street survey carried out by a reporter of  Radio "S" showed that most  opponents of the film had not seen it at all. They believed what their priests had told them in churches about the movie, and condemned it without even trying to get to know facts and form their own opinions.
Another important question is why this film brought about such a controversy. Have there not been other films in Poland before, touching such taboo topics as incest and homosexual relationships? Actually these topics have already emerged, but never in association with the Catholic Church. The Catholic Church has been always perceived as the highest moral resort, pure and uncorrupted. More than church organizations in other religions, the Catholic Church considers itself to be God's representative. This perception of the Church has prevailed for so long in our society that Polish people regard the Church as the moral authority of the highest rank. In the movie, the film director simply challenged that unshakable authority. It was very risky to project a Catholic priest as a gay, and what is more, to shoot very bold scenes of him having homosexual intercourse with his lover.
The Polish Church was opposed to the movie because it could not put up with the way the morality of the Catholic Church was portrayed. A priest's breaking the vow of celibacy is viewed by the Church as immoral. It is severely punished by expulsion. In the movie, however, the priest who broke the vow of chastity was featured as a positive character, and his behavior was interpreted as the reflection of his human soul. The Church also criticized the movie because of its portrayal of a Catholic bishop. In the movie, he is shown as having undue concern for earthly property, power, and prestige among people.
For Polish audiences, The Priest is the first film showing the Catholic Church in a dim light. The Church constitutes a very significant authority in Poland, and so far it has gained as many supporters as opponents. Having appeared in such a culture as ours, the film inevitably became the source of controversy. Apart from people who find the film offensive and profaning Christian values, there are also people who are glad that finally someone was brave enough to break taboo and reveal what they thought to be true about the Catholic Church today.
