<ICLE-PO-POZ-0026.2>

<*> says John Mason Brown. Such a statement sounds unbelievable, but recent studies have indeed proved that television has devastating effects on our health.
Because it prevents physical fitness, displays violence, and steals valuable time, television is a form of entertainment that does children more harm than good.
According to the Health Centre, symptoms that are associated with sitting in front of the television include irritation of the eyes, headache, fatigue, general irritability and increased stress. Hours spent watching, put you at risk of back pain and inhibition of muscle development often caused by poorly designed furniture and the general discomfort of sitting. Fluorescent strip lights cause eyestrain, allergic skin reactions and difficulty in concentrating. That's why children shouldn't stay watching more than about two hours a day. The most important thing is to make their childhood full of games, sports and fun in order to avoid further troubles associated with their physical fitness. Parents should give their children good opportunities to be more active and try to fill their  spare time with some playful games. They should distract their children's attention from watching television suggesting them the activities that have good effects on health.
As a result of watching television all the time, children can incur the delayed reaction of posttraumatic stress disorder. These reactions may depend on hoe secure a child feels. Some children are more sensitive than others. There are kids for whom scary movies are devastating, as they show a large number of cruel heros using brutal force to hurt one another. <*> says Dr. Scott May, cochairman of the committee on Children's Television and Media of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. In addition, he says that the stories can squelch the children's imagination. Children have nightmares, wake up during the night and cannot get back to sleep again especially when they watch horrors, war films or catastrophic films. They also imitate the behaviour of bad heros they saw in movies and they usually show it off by beating younger pupils at schools or using swear words in front of other children. They are impressed by the brutal power exposed on television, used to cause pain or damage to people.
The films cause one another bad effect which is stealing valuable time in which more useful things could be done. Children usually forget about the work they have planned to do when they start watching television. They often don't realize how much time they waste sitting and watching. This promotes laziness and takes away from the time that should be devoted to schoolwork. Even if they open their books and notebooks, they may be not ready to start learning because they may think about a certain movie that will  start in a few minutes rather than the subject, they should start learning during the time. If their parents helped them to organize their time in abetter way, they could have done everything on time and even they could have watched some good programmes. So that should be the role of parents, to encourage their children to watch only the programmes worth seeing; not the mess which is now being broadcast.
Television effects many people. It has a kind of magnetic power which draws us towards watching. A recent opinion poll has discovered that 98% of all the people watch television every day. This has degrading effects on our generation. Our children probably spend too much time in front of the television, so we should sometimes think it over if it is good or bad for our health. Sometimes it is better to take a walk or do something useful at home rather than watching television for hours.
