<ICLE-PO-POZ-0032.1>

In todays world teenagers face many difficulties as well as dangers which they are often too vulnerable to overcome on their own. Being left by their overworked parents to themselves they not seldom find help and solution to their problems in wrong places and with wrong people. This leads to teenagers' crimes and, as a result of these, to their tragedies. Therefore it is essential that parents have a duty to keep a tight control over their teenagers to protect them against bad future.
Unfortunately, adults do not often understand their duties towards their children. They mistakingly comprehend earning money and buying their kids everything they want with proper raising. They never have time to talk to the teenagers or to do things together with them. No wonder that youngsters feel abandoned and so they try to get attention by all possible ways. Undoubtfuly, the most popular ways of getting attention are the most shocking ones. So, in first place, the kids try alcohol or drugs. Needless to say, these "toys" are very expensive so sooner or later the kids are forced to lie or to steal to afford them. If the parents do not react in time their kid can become an alcohol- or a drug-addict who additionally may have a "rich" police record very early in his life. Of course, this would never happen in a loving and understanding family who talk to each other and know all the problems which the youngest ones have.
However, all the dangers mentioned so far seem trivial in comparison with the ones which other peers carry with their readiness to "help". Teenagers not only see in each other their greatest solace but also their greatest menace. They realize that they can get both good as well as bad advice from their peers but still they say: "it is better than nothing". So they not seldom get advised to misbehave at school or at home, shocking their teachers and relatives by doing things they would never do if they knew that they already have the attention they fight for so desperately. Unfortunately, parents do not read this information properly assuming that the bizarre behavior on the part of their children is a result of their transition from childhood to teenagers. Again, the role of the parents is substantial and those who understand their duties as parents to teenagers do not have problems with misbehaving kids. Not dealt with in time, misbehaving may lead to violence and crime. Teenagers soon can find out that getting attention by the means of fear is the best way to become "popular". Everybody knows and remembers the one who acted violently against him, either with powerful fists or with a gun. And it is such a "fun" to see a terrorized peer kneeling in front of his suppressor begging to let go. It is not far from this point to real crime: shooting at people for money and for no considerable reason. Here is when attention is no longer the matter: now the parents have no power to change the situation. They once had the chance which they were not eager to take. Their teenagers do not need them any more because they think they have already found their way of life.
This is usually the end of an unsuccessful parenthood. Too many adults want to be "liberal" for their children and try to raise them without too much "stress" and "intrusion". When, and still if, they decide to take a deliberate action to make their kids understand that they are not alone and that they do have their parents attention, most of the time it is unfortunately too late to change the criminals back into their own, innocent teens.
