<ICLE-PO-POZ-0016.1>

The feminist movement was started in France in the middle of the XIXth century by, so called, suffragists, who were fighting mainly for the right to vote. After a fifty-year campaign, women gained political equality symbolized by franchise. But they wanted something more, i.e. full equality between the two sexes, not only in the field of politics. Therefore, since the beginnings of the XXth century, females have been striving for further rights under the patronage of Women Liberation Movement. It seems, however, that the situation of a contemporary woman is very far from the desired one. There is no equality, either in work or on political scene. The only result which has been achieved is the increased number of responsibilities and duties on the side of a woman, who is now expected not only to take care of her house and family but also to find time for professional work. If former suffragists had been able to see the future consequences of their forelost fight, they wouldn't have probably believed how far good intentions were improperly understood by men. But the harsh truth about women's existence in today's world seems undeniable. Inspite of some advantages, feminists, in fact, have done more harm to the cause of women than good.
Modern feminists claim that the greatest success of their female predecessors was the attainment of women's suffrage, which was to be the first step in establishing full political equality between the two sexes. However, this full political equality hasn't been achieved yet. The percentage of women taking active part in political life is still rather small, there being approximately 5% of them elected to the Polish Parliament. Hardly ever is a female chosen for a party leader or a president. The obvious prejudice against women results from the lack of confidence for them. According to men, neither sufficient experience nor inclination towards politics are females' strong points, therefore they prefer to keep them aside. Additionally, having gained franchise, women usually don't take advantage of it; during parliamentary or presidential elections, they tend to vote for candidates that their husbands approve of. Most often it is because they don't have the slightest idea about politics in general or are not able to distinguish between parties' polices. Surprisingly enough, in Poland there is another reason for which women elect MPs according to their husbands' way of thinking: some men still expect their wives to show obedience in due form.
Fighting over the years for women's rights, feminists have intended to gain equality not only in the field of politics but also in public life, i.e. education and work. In both those places, however, females are conspicuously discriminated. Educated women still constitute a minority in our country, although more and more of them manage to graduate. One of the most arduous female problems is the fact of having a baby during studies. A woman with new additional responsibilities, connected with bringing up a child, is less likely to finish her education with a master degree,  there existing many inconveniences from the academic authorities' side. As far as work is concerned, women experience difficulties in finding a job and, then, keeping it. The obviously less-secure position of females results from the belief that they are less efficient workers, not being able to devote as much energy and time as males do. Additionally, women frequently take advantage of their right to get numerous sick leaves, either because of children's health problems or their own's. Therefore, females' earnings constitute only two thirds of males' earnings for the same kind of work, which is another explicit evidence for the lack of equality between sexes.
One of the greatest achievements of Women Liberation Movement is the attainment of the right to practise a profession. At the same time, however, feminists haven't eased females of their daily activities. Most women still do the nine tenth of the whole housework, taking care of their children additionally. The biological function ascribed to a woman, of being a mother who would nurse her babies, together with the traditional function, of maintaining a house and satisfying her husband' needs, have been widened by nowadays' demands to support a family financially. No wonder that a contemporary woman suffers from the constant lack of time to accomplish all those duties and responsibilities. Undoubtedly, she cannot stand on her feet again in order to find herself, being completely lost in this new situation.
Along with more responsibilities and duties which were added to the already existing ones, the privileges of women have decreased. Hardly ever can one come across the former customs of kissing a woman's hand, or allowing her to pass through the door first, especially abroad. Together with those symbols, the respect for females seems to have disappeared also. Women staying in permanent relationships are very frequently beaten, shouted at during quarrels, sexually abused and psychologically tormented by their husbands. Additionally, men are nowadays more likely to demand a divorce and abandon their families without having any qualms of conscience. Truly enough, this humiliation of women is indirectly due to feminists, who wanted to gain equality of sexes at any cost. After all, when a woman was dependent upon her husband financially in the past, a man felt responsible for her as well as their children. Now, he doesn't have to worry about the future lot of his wife who, having become independent and self-reliant, is able to earn for a living herself.
The feminist fight for women's rights, which have taken about 150 years, hasn't turned out as beneficial as it may have seemed at the very beginning. Owing to suffragists, females gained franchise, the symbol of political equality; but they did it at the cost of their serenity and respect from the males' side. One can risk to say that women declared themselves against their own sex. They didn't attain the real equality; instead, more duties and responsibilities were added to the daily activities of a woman, including professional work. The clash between tradition and liberalisation has resulted in women's perplexity and inability to find themselves in a new situation. One may pose a question: is there anything that could help women? It seems that the only way to reverse this hopeless plight is to demand equal rights for men. Since males understand a right as a duty, it's high time they were given their rights to do housework and take care of their children. Maybe this  will appear advantageous for women. Who knows?...
