<ICLE-PO-POZ-0014.2>

It is heard very often that children spend too much time in front of TV. In fact, they seem to be addicted to it. This starts from the very young age because most mothers treat television as a free baby-sitter. Whenever women are too busy to take care of their children, they just switch the TV on and sit the babies in front of it, so that the children do not disturb them. Then the kids watch hours of programs devouring rather less than more meaningful pictures. Next, they get used to consuming visual material without thinking and finally they become thoughtless consumers of showbusiness and propaganda. In order to prevent people from passive reception of motion pictures we should teach children about television, its programs, purposes and value All children of today generation undoubtably watch TV but majority of them cannot properly estimate the value of the program they look at. Therefore, they should be taught from their first school years that television is not only fun and entertainment but also a source of knowledge. During the TV lessons pupils could be informed first of all about the variety of educational and cultural productions and where to look for them. Teachers should also talk about the role of propaganda and psychology behind the advertisements. At the higher level, it should be also useful to teach about the history of pictures and television. Discussions on the recently seen programs would help a lot in teaching pupils thinking about and analysing the surrounding reality. What is more important, stress should be put on the difference between the pictures and reality, especially in the case of young children, for they seem to have problems with that. Of course subjects and issues should be adapted to the age of pupils.
Such as the modern society cannot escape technology, similarly children cannot escape television. We cannot forbid kids to watch TV. What we can do however, is to guide them properly and teach how to use television in the most profitable and harmless way. Therefore professionally led lessons about mass media and their role is the best way to help our children in their future lives.
