<ICLE-PO-POZ-0024.2>

Although it seems that women and men grow up and exist in the same world and there are more women working than ever before, they still are discriminated at work.
There are obvious differences between the two sexes. Women are regarded as physically weaker and less practical while men, on the other hand, are said to be really strong and practical. These stereotypes of women being more sensitive, imaginative, influenced by emotions and men, on the contrary, more rigid, quicker in taking decisions and choosing the logical way of thinking, have a great deal of influence upon the work discrimination.
First of all - women's work is undervalued. It is commonly known that they earn only half of what men generally earn. Their work is treated less seriously as it has mostly grown out of domestic work - caring, cooking, making clothes - things females have done for centuries for their families without payment. Some men consider those jobs as being part of women's natural role. Cleaning activities, clothes manufacture, retailing, homeworking are almost entirely staffed by women and as a result the fields became "feminised", and what is really annoying, lower paid. One potent myth which keeps women's salaries low is the belief that women work for "pin-money". Despite the fact that more and more mothers are becoming the sole wage earners, either because of growing unemployment or because they are single parents, this opinion results in women getting lower pay than their male workmates. Some men still think women do not need the money as desperately as male bread-winners and because of this they should work only part-time to fit in with their family commitments. It is sad, as they do nearly all the domestic work at home and they cannot find full-time good quality childcare, working part-time seems to be the only way out for them. In addition, having children does not help the situation at all and it can severely damage your career in your boss's eyes. Many women are led to believe that they should be grateful to their employer for giving them a job at last and they should just "keep their head out of the firing line". Some male bosses have sexist, hostile attitudes that females should stay at home and raise children. Moreover, extra or merit payment for good employees can often be extremely different for sexes - women are judged unfair where employers make up the basic rate of pay with heavy overtime - they have to devote far more time to their families than their male co-workers.
In connection with the problem of women's discrimination at work it is worth pointing out  some data. As the national surveys announce women still earn only 70% of male wages. In finance, women make up almost half the employees and earn in total only half male wages. The caring, cleaning, catering professions are underpaid partly because they are seen as less skilled than "male" jobs. The law discriminates against part-timers: they have to work for more than twice as long as full timers to earn protection from unfair dismissal and have far fewer employment rights. Since the majority of part-timers are women the law is just sanctioning discrimination. Besides only 3% of university professors, 8% of business managers and 15% of medical consultants are women.
Some men manufacturers claim to employ women factory workers on the grounds that their fingers are more nimble than men's and that they are better at jobs that are monotonous and need dexterity. There is no evidence that women are more or less dexterous than men. On might say - Part-time work should be a way forward to help women mix family and financial commitments. In fact it is rapidly becoming a step towards casual, unprotected jobs. For those who work either full- or part-time the quality of childcare available is so poor that worrying about what is happening at home is not conducive to giving your best at work.
Women have succeeded in any jobs. As politicians, soldiers, doctors, university professors, farmers, company directors and presidents of countries, they have often put men to shame. They frequently succeed brilliantly in all these fields in addition to bearing and rearing children. So when women prove their skills, men object to appreciate them and give them their due. Work discrimination is probably caused by men's inferiority complex. Men know women are superior and they are afraid of being beaten at their own game.
Changing attitudes does take time, but changing the law to make it easier to bring discrimination cases and to give full time rights to part-timers could give areal push to the process and that is something every discriminated at work woman should ask for.
