<ICLE-PO-POZ-0036.2>

Intelligence- the mental ability of human beings is primarily the result of the education that one receives. Moreover, it is the effect of gaining an experience by an individual in various interactions with the outside world. For example, a student of English Philology at the University gets knowledge about English lanquage, English and American literature, culture and history. What is more, he or she also learns how to respect  and tolerate other students' different personalities by having to adjust himselt or herself to various personal relations. Additionaly, an intelligent  student draws conclusions from the previous experience when he or she has to tackle a problem. So intelligence is a complex mental power which can be analysed in terms of three interconnected aspects:receiving new information, understanding it as well as applying this information in various contexts of the outside world.
First of all, intelligence is the process of acquiring knowledge. This process includes an ability to receive numerous messages from the outside world. For example, a student of English Philology should be able to store in  memory information presented to him or to her during lectures, laboratory classes and seminars. Therefore he or she must be prepared to receive information about all aspects of language: its phonological, semantic and syntactic system. Moreover, a student of  English  has to learn  not only about English and American history, literature, culture and will be also  oblidged to attend lectures on psychology, philosophy and methodology. So a student of English Philology has to learn also the subjects not directly connnected with English but also many additional subjects.  Such a student will have to be capable of "reading between the lines" - that is to understand information hidden in the form of methaphors and symbols. This ability is necessary for students of English to understand the language of poetry.
Secondly intelligence requires reasoning. So for example, a student of English Philology must develop various strategies of reasoning in order to acquire knowledge in  many subjects and on  many levels of abstraction. The reasoning processes include an ability to deduct, that is to reason from general principles to a particular case. So a student of English, while learning  phonological principles  about aspiration, on the basis of general rule should be able to say which sounds in English are aspirated and which are not.  The opposite mental process of reasoning is called induction, which involves discovering general laws from particular facts or examples. Thus, a student of English given only various instances of words in which sounds are aspirated, should be able to come up with a general principle referring to the process of aspiration in English language. Moreover, intelligence denotes an ability to synthetise, that is to combine separate facts or parts into one unity. This ability is necessery in learning for example history, because a  student has to learn many historical events in order to have a general "picture" of  history. The opposite mental process is connected with analysing things to study their structure. This type of thinking which demands careful analysis to understand mathaphors and symbols is necessary in studying  for example literature.
Thirdly intelligence involves utilising understood knowledge into practice. This skill called "know how" means that an intelligent person  is ready to approach and to  come up with solutions to a particular problem. For example a student of English must be able to organise his or her work when preparing for the exams. He or she must know what to learn first, how to select things in order of their importance in the given span of time. Additionally,this aspect of intelligence is connected with passing acquired knowledge to the others. Therefore, a student of English should not only know methodological methods but should  also know how to apply them while teaching English language.
Generaly speaking intelligence can be defined as a complex mental process, which can analysed in terms of three interconnected aspects. These aspects:receiving, applying and passing information are equally important in determining one's level of intelligence. Nethertheless, each of these aspects can be examined at more detaild levels to study the complex structure of intelligence. This additionally means, that each element of intelligence should be simultaneously developed so as to ensure an optimal mentel development of an individual.
