<ICLE-PO-POZ-0047.1>

Man has always wanted to understand his or her fellow human beings. The search for understanding has prompted man to think. Thoughts were a way to probe into the other man's realm of ideas. Man has always felt the urge to share his or her thought, he, therefore, attempted to record them the best he could. Ancient drawings on cave walls or computer-edited texts; they all testify to the universal need of human beings to understand and be understood. That's why humans read. They read to be able to find a point of reference for themselves. They read to find out more about the other and at the same time to find out more about themselves. This is how make sure we are not alone in our quest to understand the world around us.
People read newspapers and magazines to make sure that, somewhere out there, there are other humans with different ideas. Caught up in the rat race, people yearn for variety. Reading about the war in Rwanda might not be encouraging but, at least, it reassures the readers that apart from their own world of unpaid bills and meager salaries there are other worlds with different priorities. Without such points of reference, man might be tempted to view his or her world from a very narrow-minded point of view.
Man has tried to understand his or her mind and soul ever since he or she developed the perception of these attributes of humanity. People attempt self-definition through comparison. We look inwards and what we discover becomes valid only if we relate it to what the others think. Poetry has served this purpose for years. It offers significant insights into the human mind and soul and, at the same time, it allows to express what otherwise would remain ineffable. People write poetry to express their musings on the life. People read poetry to make sure that they are not alone in their search to understand their place in the world.
Then, apart from printed texts, we often catch ourselves reading each other's eyes. Other people's eyes, blue or brown, slanted or straight, misty or clear; they are a peculiar sort of connection between our minds. Catching a stranger's glance at a subway station or at a bar counter, we know that we are not the only ones who imagine, think, love, hate, hope or simply do not care. Human eyes allow a careful observer to enter the realm of other people's mind. They should be read very carefully.
Reading gives us the key to other people's ideas. It opens up our own world and exposes us more to our fellow human beings. Through reading, we are able to progress in the search for understanding humanity and its role in this world. More importantly, however, reading about the others gives us the proof that we are not alone in this search. This is a guarantee that life will never turn into a mundane one-man show.
