<ICLE-PO-POZ-0050.1>

Living our lives, being occupied by everyday events, going through our problems and having our own happy moments, we do not always realize how important eating is. Being too busy to think about it at least for a while, we usually take a bite of anything to run back to our extremely important matters. Only when we have some problems with our health, do we realize how important eating is. Not just eating understood as stuffing ourselves with anything, but eating in the sense of providing our organisms with certain elements necessary for us to live. The problem of nourishment, on the other hand, has been of great interest to many scientists all over the world. There have been many experiments carried out and much research done which has finally led the scientists to reach some conclusions.
One of the first scientists to take up the subject of nourishment seriously was an American scholar - prof. Keys. In the sixties he conducted an experiment with 34 volunteers who, for some time, were given food rich in calories but deprived of protein. The results were astonishing. After just a few days the characters of the volunteers changed drastically. The protein deficiency led to their becoming egoistic, suspicious and easily irritable.
Another element of importance in nourishment is carbohydrate. An excess of this element, which can be found in cereals, potatoes, sugar, milk and fruit, may cause tiredness, irritation and inability to concentrate. Very similar symptoms can be observed when the organism lacks magnesium (present, for example, in chocolate).
Apart from all the above elements being so important in our everyday nourishment, there is also something else extremely significant, namely vitamins. It has been proven that vitamins A, C, E, B6 and B12 are the most necessary for male and female fertility. Also vitamine B3 (present in liver, meat, nuts, beans and peas) is very important in everyday nourishment being responsible for the efficient working of the brain.
And finally fats play a great role in people's nourishment. "Saturated fats have long been the villains in reports on heart disease but now they figure in a cancer study. According to a report in the journal of the National Cancer Institute in the US, non-smoking women who derive 15 per cent or more of their calorie intake from saturated fats are six times more likely to develop lung cancer than those whose diets contains 10 per cent or less."
Does what we eat matter then. Of course, it does. There is no doubt about it. If we watched more closely what we eat, we would certainly be much healthier. Maybe it is high time we started to eat consciously instead of stuffing ourselves with lots of useless calories. That would certainly make our lives better.
?? 