<ICLE-PO-POZ-0040.1>

Probably at the very beginning of human being history females and males, although different, were equal in their "rights" and social position. It was strength and violence which most probably made women inferior to men. Years after years, centuries after centuries, women were becoming more and more dependent on men which resulted in their being treated as inferior "creatures". Although in the last two centuries the position of women has changed due to flourishing feminist movements, giving them more opportunities and freedom, men and women equality is still just a theory today.
Women inferiority can be best traced on the example of the Islamic world. In these countries governed by religious codes, the position of women is defined by the sacred book of Islam - the Koran, which says that: <*>. Basic religious law, which is the foundation for all legislation concerning families, allows a man to marry four wives, while it is impossible for a woman to have more than one husband. It also diminishes a woman to the status of half a man for purposes of inheritance. Most Muslim women are deprived of primary education. In Egypt, for example, 66.2 percent of the adult women are illiterate, while only 37.1 percent of the men. The ratio of women and men illiterates is similar in most of the poorer countries in the Muslim world. Of all 960 million illiterate people all over the world, two thirds are women. Ninety million girls in the world are denied primary education. Even if some of them are lucky enough to go to the university, they still have to sit behind men during lectures. Even educated women cannot perform top jobs and work among men.
For more than a century in the Islamic world, the questions of what women should wear and how they should behave have been issues for debate by men. Women have no right to control their own lives, husbands and the number of children. Girls from poor families are sold at the age of fifteen to their future husbands and have to be obedient and faithful to them whatever happens. The man has the right to kill his unfaithful wife, but it is impossible the other way round. Women don't "have" a family, they "belong" to it. Their only role is that of a slave of her husband.
Another part of the world worth mentioning while talking about women discrimination is India. Although the situation of women in this country is better than those Muslim women, it is still bad. First of all, giving birth to a baby girl is treated as a disaster for the whole family as her father would have to give her husband a dowry, which many a time exceeds ten years' income of the family. This situation led to massive killings of baby girls and abortions of female foetus. It resulted in a ridiculous situation: almost each Indian village has an ultrasonograph to check the sex of the foetus, but it still has not got running water. Girls are treated much worse than boys, yet they have still quite a lot of freedom. If their families are rich enough they can get all forms of education. Although it happens very seldom, they can perform top jobs, or be the head of the country, as, for example, Indira Ghandi was.
However the Western culture gives women the best chances. After years of struggle for their rights, women are in a position almost equal to men. Some people even claim that men and women equality is a fact in Europe nowadays, but it is not true. Women discrimination is covert and that is why it is very difficult to detect. The constitutions of all European countries give women the same rights as men, and say that men and women are equal. But still women are discriminated. It is still a common situation that women are less paid for the same work. A male doctor gets at least ten percent higher salary than a female doctor at the same hospital, it is also him who is more likely to become the ward head. Most top jobs are more available to men, and performed by them not because they are better educated or more efficient, but because of their sex. Although it is prohibited by law in many countries, employers many a time refuse to employ women just because they are females.
Even if men don't show women that they consider them inferior it is still in their minds. Even unconsciously they tend to think of women as somebody worse and uneducated. They try to prove that they are better and more worthy.
The problem of men and women equality is a universal one. All over the world women are treated as inferior to men. It differs from country to country, ranging from treating women as slaves in the Islamic world to treating them as almost equal in Western Cultures. However, even in Western culture, where feminist movements have been flourishing for years, the men and women equality is still just a theory.
