<ICLE-PO-POZ-0027.1>

The pursuit of money is the only aim in many people's lives. Money is desirable as it assures a full and interesting existence. It enables people to take advantage of many amenities provided to them and satisfies both their physical and psychological needs. Hence, at the turn of the 20th century money is attributed the greatest value of all.
Opponents to this view would probably shout with indignation on hearing such a statement. They believe that it is love, not money that is the most important thing in life. They also stress the significance of satisfaction achieved through harmony between body and soul. What is more, they say that it is only health that is the most precious thing in life.
In response to the argument that love is the most important it can be said, however bitter it seems, that without the support of money love dies away. Lack of money makes it impossible for a couple to have a chance to go to cinemas, theatres, cafes or fancy restaurants. Going out together, spending time in a pleasant atmosphere and travelling a lot add a good taste to a relationship and provide a couple with new experiences. Lack of money hinders the development of a relationship and truly weakens it. It has been proved by many psychologists that lack of money is one of the factors leading to a break-up of a supposedly stable and strong relationship. In this way money can be viewed as a guarantee of the success in love as it is superior to love.
To some people satisfaction means more than money. Nevertheless people's satisfaction hardly ever stems from turning their dreams into reality and gaining respect from others. It is often money that assures satisfaction. The belief that self- development and harmony between body and soul lie at the roots of complacency was characteristic of medieval monks, who valued ascetism highest and paid no attention to any earthly comforts. By contemporary people satisfaction is measured by the amount of money put away in a bank or located in real estate. In this way money can be perceived as the only means of assuring people's self-confidence and pleasure in life.
To many people health has the highest price. Unfortunately, they are unable to see that health can be preserved only with the support of money. Wholesome food, recommended a lot nowadays, is said to be one of the factors ensuring people's health. Nevertheless, feeding well costs a lot as a diet of low fat, sugar free products rich in vitamins is quite expensive for average people. Apart from eating wholsome food, practising sports is treated as another factor to guarantee fitness. Beneficial results of practising sports cannot be called in question, but for example skiing, playing tennis or riding a horse are quite expensive again. Without money there is no chance of maintaining good condition. Still, more serious problems arise when seriously ill people need hospital treatment and professional care, but they do not have money to cover all the expenses connected with curing their illnesses. What about people for whom expensive transplantations of organs could be the only salvation of their lives? They die because they do not have money to buy a new heart or a kidney that could at least prolong their lives. In this way one can dare a statement that there is no life without money.
To summarise, seemingly people hold the topic of money in contempt and look down on those who pay too much attention to it. On the other hand they do not realise that everything is subordinated to money. Without it they would not be able to maintain love or find satisfaction. Even more paradoxical is that without the support of money they would not be able to preserve health or even life. In this way money has the greatest value. As Oscar Wilde said: <*>.
