<ICLE-PO-POZ-0049.1>

There are thousands of different sport games many of which were invented and developed in the ancient times. Owing to sport, young people can both compete with one another and develop their phisical features and some personal qualities, for example self- confidence. It also helps in gaining the respect and admiration of others. Even though all sport games have always been organized competitively they have usually equalled amusement and fun. Both sportsmen and the wide audience could have a very good time either while observing or taking part in a sport event.
Whenever I watch a boxing match I keep in mind what the word "sport" conveys. The more I think the more sure I am that boxing cannot be called a sport. First of all, it lacks real competition. Obviously there are some rules which govern boxing. In boxing, however, everything can very easily go out of control as this sport evokes lots of negative emotions. During the matches the atmosphere is usually so tense that it often results in dangerous fights among spectators. The aggression is everywhere, it radiates so quickly and so spontanously. Instead of pleasant sport event people are involved in hatred and aggression. Boxing provides us only with enormous cruelty and violence.
Furthermore, sport is always associated with health. Boxing however is such an activity which can very easily lead both to mental and phisical injuries. Thousands of noses and fists broken, people deprived of their teeth and eyes - such are results of boxing. It is however brain that is too a large extent exposed on the most dangerous injuries. The boxer's brain is punched very strongly all the time as it is head that receives most punches. Special boxing gloves are no protection in such cases. Lack of balance, problems with hearing and sight and other brain damages are very sad, drastic outcomes of boxing. People who are keen on boxing will not be in good health. On the contrary, boxing may change them into severly handicapped.
In the past people could enjoy any kind of sport - even boxing. Before the war boxing was neither so brutal nor violent. It is money that led to present, drastic situation. It should be blamed for spoiling many sport games. The willing to win and thus to earn a large sum of money is often so strong that the boxers do not comply with sport rules. What a boxer wants is a humiliation of his opponent.
To sum up, boxing should not be called a sport as it has lost such sport features as real competition, amusement or fun. It results in human humiliation and deprives boxers of their dignity. Instead of developing human health it can lead to serious injuries which prevent young people from normal functioning in modern world.
