<ICLE-PO-POZ-0037.1>

According to the Center for Studying the Public Opinion (CBOP), 77% of people surveyed fear that Polish army cannot guarantee safety to our country. When asked for reasons why the army is so insufficient, 83% of people pointed to our army's inadequate and obsolete equipment, 56% blamed politicians making decisions unfavourable to the army, and 34% claimed that Poland is too small and weak to defy any potential aggressor. In fact, Polish military budget is much smaller than that of other post-communist countries, and is inadequately used. Consequently, Polish army in its present shape is indeed poorly equipped and inefficient. For this reason, it should be replaced by a modern professional army.
The main failure of the present system is making wrong use of the funds awarded from the State's budget. Limited as these funds are, they constitute a serious strain on the state's finances. Still, at present the greater part of them is drained by the costs of providing housing, uniforms, shoes, and basic military equipment to hundreds of thousands of recruits called up every year. Shortening the time of service, from 18 to 12 months, is not a good solution to this problem. It would certainly reduce the costs of housing, at the same time having no negative impact on the quality of training. However, it would cause the increase of spendings on uniforms, and it is worth noting that the army already does not have money to provide service dress for all recruits (they only receive battle dress).
The fact that the army spends the greater part of military budget on housing and uniforms results in lack of funds for modernizing armaments and increasing the number of military equipment. Polish politicians and military men see a chance of increasing safety of our country in joining NATO. However, as the former Minister of Defense Piotr Kolodziejczyk stated (in widely quoted words), <*>. Majority of Polish army's equipment is obsolete and, as such, does not need NATO's standards. The obvious solution seems to be buying modern material. However, production of majority of armaments in Poland is based on obsolete technologies, and Polish army cannot afford foreign equipment. In fact, it even has difficulties in purchasing those Polish products which actually gained acceptance of NATO; for example, the army can afford buying 10 tanks a year. Without doubt, such imperfections of the armament system does not increase the safety of Polish citizens.
Another failure of the present system of defense is the fact that it is based on people called up on compulsory basis who often have negative attitude towards military service. The reasons for such an attitude are numerous. Recruits usually have to join the army precisely at the moment when they start organizing their adult lives. Instead of persuing their professional careers, they have to indulge in activities which are useless in civil life or pointless. During the service, they are humiliated by their superiors and older colleagues. Finally, during the military training, they practice on obsolete equipment. It remains a mystery how an army made up of such soldiers is to keep high morale and guarantee good protection to our country.
All problems mentioned above could be solved if professional army substituted for compulsory military service. In the first place, such an army would consist of well-motivated and positively predisposed people. There is no doubt there would be no problem in finding such people, as already there are many volunteers for the professional service which exists in a "narrow" form in Poland; it is so because, on the contrary to compulsory service, the professional one guarantees well-paid jobs and retired pay at relatively young age (after 25 years of service). Additionally, the costs of housing would radically decrease, as professional soldiers would live in their private houses, and limited number of soldiers would make it possible to save considerable sums of money now spent on uniforms. The funds gained in this way could be spent on salaries for professional soldiers, and, what is more important, on modern equipment. The civilians would receive some basic military training during short and intensive courses, so that they would be able to support the professional army in an emergency. Thus, in every respect, the professional army would surpass the non- professional one that exists at present in Poland.
As it has been shown above, the contemporary Polish army, which is costly and unable to perform its duty of effective defending of our country, should be replaced by a modern professional army meeting Western standards, able to guarantee safety to Polish citizens.
