<ICLE-PO-POZ-0019.1>

One only needs to take a look around to see that the world we are living in is the future already. To get to Peking from Warsaw, the distance of 7500 kilometres, within 8 hours is not a problem today - supersonic aeroplanes make it possible for us. Thanks to mobile phones one is available at any time. Through a network of computer connections people have access to huge databases of computerised information that they are able to obtain in a split second. With computers used in every field of life, we are in fact on the brink of a computerised future. As our society becomes more technologically sophisticated, we can shop without leaving the house even by means of electronic supermarkets. However, those who boast of blessings of civilisation and conquests of science are usually unaware of the negative impact science, technology, and industrialisation have had on us. Despite of all benefits we derive, disadvantages of technological development do remain evident - a gradual decline in social life and a progressing loss of creativity seem inevitable in the modern world. Moreover, as scientific inquiry provides answers to every question, hardly anything nowadays remains unanswered. Thus, nowadays people live their lives being deprived of dreaming and imagination.
Proponents of technological advancement often argue that it has facilitated communication among people. To back up their stand, they point out to the alleged advantages of the twentieth century inventions such as, for example,  the telephone - the device which makes it possible for people from far ends of the world to communicate. Indeed, there is nothing wrong with the telephone - one finds it a very convenient way of communication nowadays. But, as far as the television is concerned, the situation needs deeper insight. Let us now go back in time to the days when the television was not invented yet. Whenever asked what their pastimes were at that time, elder people have a ready answer to give: "We used to gather together, play cards, visit our friends, organise picnics or go to the parties". Nowadays, having the whole family staring at the TV set for hours is a common picture. There is a countless number of channels to choose from, all providing a huge selection of  programmes which, quite unexpectedly, are supplanting our other activities. We do not feel the need for such a great social contact any more - TV provides us with entertainment of any kind.
Surprisingly enough, on the verge of the 21st century people also find themselves emptied of their creative abilities. Computers perform a lot of work for us so we do not have to think but just press the buttons. Shops are filled with 'ready-to-eat' food so we do not have to devise our own recipes but just switch on a microwave oven. However, some do believe scientific development fosters human creativity. They say that special Computer Aided Design  (CAD) programmes help to visualise architectural designs better. But, even if thanks to technology, new improved construction materials continue to be invented and higher and higher buildings erected, does it really mean that technological development encourages creativity? Not necessarily. If, again, we investigate the last one hundred years in the history of architecture, we will soon discover that, in fact, as technological development progressed the quality of architectural design started to decline. The Eiffel Tower - a famous Parisian landmark and technological masterpiece in building-construction history - may serve as a good example here. Built of wrought iron in 1889, the construction aroused a lot of scepticism and no little opposition on aesthetic grounds. For the next few years the tower was considered the ugliest construction in the world. But we do not really have to date back to the late nineteenth century when the development of building construction was still at a relatively low level in comparison with the one we have today. The evidence of our poor creative abilities is to be found all around us - blocks of flats we are living in, those simple boxes made of reinforced concrete, speak for themselves.
Undoubtedly, the reinforced concrete environment does not inspire us for dreaming. Sadly enough, there remains very little place for dreaming and imagination in our technologically advanced world. Today, parents do not have to wait till the delivery of their child to find out his/her sex - ultrasonic examination allows them to know it during the first month of pregnancy already. Moreover, thanks to in vitro fertilisation labs, people can consciously decide what sex their baby would be. There is no speculation whether there is life on the Moon or not - outer space research has proved there is not any. We are no longer amazed watching a rainbow in the sky as we know it is just an ordinary fission of light waves. Probably, the only thing to admire in the modern world is the high level of technology and the only chance for imagination for us is to think where science would take us in the nearest future.
Although there are people inclined to see the blessings of civilisation as beneficial for us,  it seems that scientific advancement does not necessarily has to influence us in a positive way. Some inventions turn out to disrupt our lives contributing to a breakdown in human communication. Others deprive us of creative powers by making us keep up the pace of technological progress. In the strictly scientific modern world we are also left with no chance to dream. Maybe, it is time to think whether science, technology and industrialisation do lead to a genuine improvement in the quality in our lives. Maybe, it is time to stop being so receptive to new developments.
