<ICLE-PO-POZ-0022.1>

Our century has been dominated by technology. Cars, computers, telephones, TV sets, etc. have become a inseparable part of everyday reality. We depend on technology so heavily that we cannot imagine living without electricity, running water, and other marvels of science. We tend to think that technology brings progress, advantage, and improvement. We support its development in the hope it will make our lives easier, more comfortable, and happier. Unfortunately, it does not necessarily have to be the case. Very often does it happen that technology does more harm than good.
First of all, the development of technology contributes to the devastation of the environment we live in. It affects everything that we depend on. Petrol fumes from car engines poison the air we breathe in. Waste from factories pollutes the water we drink. Large areas of land are seriously contaminated. As a result, many people suffer from diseases that have their roots in the pollution of the environment. For instance, an increased number of allergies is proved to be highly correlated with pollution. Most often, however, we do not appreciate the dangers of technology unless we face a disaster. It was a great shock to us when a few years ago the leakage from the nuclear reactor in Chernobyl contaminated large areas of Eastern Europe. Lots of people died of radiation sickness and the land around the nuclear power plant became uninhabitable. There is no doubt then that the development of technology has serious ecological consequences.
Moreover, the development of technology has dramatically affected our way of life. We tend to watch TV rather than read books or go to the theatre. When solving a problem, we rely more on computers than on ourselves. We do not bother to go on foot when we have a car. We would rather use the phone than visit somebody. However useful all these invensions may be they limit our use of intellect and encourage laziness. We tend to be concerned with material reality. We forget, unfortunately, about spiritual and intellectual side of our existence.
Last, but not least, technology has always been and still is seriously abused. New scientific discoveries are immediately applied to the production of more and more sophisticated weapons. Practically every branch of science has various applications in the armaments industry. Consequently, nowadays, people have at their disposal not only so called conventional weapons but also chemical weapons, biological weapons, and nuclear weapons. Scientists constantly look for new inventions for the good of our civilization. But hardly ever do they think how their discoveries may be misused in the future. Maria Curie, for example, could have known that her discovery of radioactivity would consequently lead to the construction of nuclear weapons. Our century has experienced the murderous effect of modern weapons. Both World Wars proved how disastrous technology may be. Perhaps the most warning event was the annihilation of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. It made people realize that our world can be easily blown up at the press of a button.
In the light of the above evidence, it seems obvious that technology does not necessarily have to improve the quality of our existence. On the contrary, it may conceivably threaten the whole of our civilization. It is true that there are some advantages to be gained through the development of technology but many of them are only illusive and, in the long run, they turn against us. In most cases, the benefits that technology offers us are hardly comparable with its dangers. That is why, it is crucial that we should stop treating technology as a solution to all our problems and began to be more sceptical about it. Perhaps it would be an exaggeration to suggest that the development of technology should be held up but certainly it has to be controlled in some way. It would be a good idea, for example, to establish an organization which could supervise and control the development and applications of new scientific discoveries.
