<ICLE-PO-POZ-0012.2>

The problem of using drugs is one of the most serious problems in all the modern societies. The whole world is now facing the problem of the increasing number of drug addicts and the developing drug market. Since it is extremely harmful it should be solved as soon as possible but I do not think that making drugs easily available is the right solution.
Every day more and more people start using drugs. It is mainly due to the influence of their friends who have already tried it. It seems to be the reaction to stress and problems of their everyday lives. When they have nobody to help them they turn to drugs. For them it seems to be the only way to make life easier and more pleasant. Drugs are treated as a kind of medicine. They are the way out of the difficult situation. At least it is what these people think. Fortunately enough the high prices of drugs and quite difficult access to them stop some of us from taking up this risky procedure. Making drugs easily available would very quickly increase using them. It is not difficult to imagine what would happen if drugs were presented on the shelves of every single shop just like any other product. It would make drugs and e.g. food and medicines equal. Drugs would be perceived as something good and healthy which seems absurd. Young, unexperienced children would not be able to differentiate between drugs and other things. Pure curiosity could very often lead to trying drugs, just to see how they work. And at this point there is only one step left to addiction.
It is really doubtful if there is a single society in which the level of knowledge as far as drugs are concerned is sufficient enough. If it were the case there would not be any drug market or drug addicts. Wise and educated people are aware, or at least should be aware, of the disastrous effects of using drugs. No man would willingly risk and destroy his or her life. But still many people do it and it proves that societies are not fully aware of the dangers. Even if they were, making drugs legally available would be very misleading. People expect to be offered products that could improve the quality of their lives and not put their lives in danger.
