<ICLE-PO-POZ-0011.1>

In the present world wreathed in the flourishing ideas of democracy, freedom, independence and tolerance there should, theoretically, be no space for racism, sexism, xenophobia or persecution. The average modern human being prides him/herself on open-mindedness, liberty of thought and tolerance. Nevertheless, the practice shows that what a white person puts actually most pride in is the skin colour while for a male individual it is his masculinity and for a Christian the religious beliefs to be exalted. The rule, of course, is that always the majority or the socially and culturally privileged group usurps the right to acclaim their qualities and features as these of a higher status.
What is interesting, the open fight or the explicit discrimination is apparently perceived as primitive and inhumane while any covert action brings rarely such negative connotations. Therefore, it would not be generally accepted to say that some men are superior to others but the dissembling statement that "All men are equal: but some are more equal than others" sounds fair enough to be approved of. Indeed, nobody is free from prejudices and inferiority or superiority feelings and, as a result, true equality remains only an abstract notion. People have, alas, always had tendencies to discriminate or exterminate what is different or unknown.
At first, what seems nowadays superficially preposterous is the fact that it is a female individual who finds most difficulties in being viewed as equal and treated with full respect by men. Although the process of emancipation has been already completed there will always remain some deeply rooted conceptions about women being less immune to the hardships of life. The main fields in which this can be visible is the world of politics, business and entertainment in which woman plays usually the role of a "toy" or a supplementary element. Since men are prime ministers, employers or entertainment recipients women will always remain lower officials, employers or entertainers. For those to whom the above statement seems too far-fetched it is enough to look at the percentage of women in Parliament or at high offices, not to mention with whom the word 'prostitution' is usually associated.
Traditionalists may claim that women are biologically programmed to bear children and fall back into marriages, and that nobody is so good at supporting husbands in their careers as wives. Nevertheless, are men biologically programmed to minimize the roles and potentials of women and nip their ambitions in the bud?
Secondly, the most unsettling and delicate aspect of the problem of equality, or rather unequality, is the racial and religious persecution. While any kind of overt hostility or oppression provokes disapproval and the majority of enlighted modern liberals take a dim view of racism and intolerance, the numerous admit to a 'slightly' racial tendencies. Not everybody would, in fact, dare to commit a "petty crime" of calling in public a Black person the Niger or harassing his family but scarcely any individual would hesitate to show favouritism to the people of his/her race . Is not it true, however, that racism and discrimination begins when one evaluates oneself as the better while not simultaneously maintaining that somebody else is worse? From whichever angle we would scrutinise the problem in question it is evident that people always tend to compare and label themselves and there will always be some hierarchy, no matter what criteria we would establish as the basis for the hierarchical structure.
In conclusion, the absolute equality was, is and will be impossible. Whether it is human nature or stark reality that causes the segregation and discrimination, remains a rhetorical question. It lies, however, beyond doubt that despite the written law and numerous attempts to provide every individual with the right to his/her individuality, people will never experience equality. Racism, sexism or any kind of  persecution may, of course, work in two directions but irrespective of whether it is the Black or White, man or woman, Christian or Buddhist who is harassed there is, anyway, somebody who stays "more equal than others" in this relation. If only the eradication of the negative human tendencies to discriminate was possible our world would free itself from many unnecessary wars, conflicts and social problems. Is it, however, possible?
