<ICLE-PO-POZ-0008.1>

"All men are equal: but some are more equal than others". Equality. What is equality? Obviously, the belief that all people living in this world have the right to have a similar social position and receive the same treatment, regardless of their apparent differences. We live in the world that is dominated by science technology and industrialization. The breathtaking technological advancement is visible everywhere. Societies all over the world differ a lot. People, despite the close of the twentieth century, are still being divided into the white, black, red, or yellow, the affluent and the poor, the old and the young, the unemployed and the employed e.t.c. There is no doubt that people are put into categories. They are judged on the basis of their colour of the skin, intelligence, income, abilities, dwellings, affluency or poorness. Such a categorization might threaten the precarious balance among human beings. There is no question about it, inequality is here. No one is unaffected either by racial prejudice, nationalism, explosion of technology or being simply an old person. Inequality poses a threat to our privacy, even to our concept of reality. Thus, the words written by George Orwell in "Animal Farm" that "All men are equal: but some are more equal than others" are still applicable to the reality we deal with. Although, as this century closes and we enter the first computational millenium, one of the great conflicts in civilization is the attempt to reorder societies, cultures e.t.c. preventing people from the "checks and balances" so delicately constructed in those previously "flourishing" centuries.
The most vivid example of inequality is the belief that abilities depend on race and that some races are superior to others. In some countries where racial prejudice is acute, violence has so come to be taken for granted as a means of solving differences, that it is not even questioned. There are countries where the white man imposes his rule by brute force. There are countries where the black man protests by setting fire to cities by looting and pillaging. Important people on both sides, who would in other respects appear to be reasonable men, get up and calmly argue in favour of violence as if it were a legitimate solution, like any other. What is really frightening, what really fills one with despair, is the realisation that when it comes to the crunch, we have made no actual progress at all. We may wear collars and ties instead of war paint but our hostile instincts remain basically unchanged.
The bewilderment of the black man is caused solely by the action of the white one. What are the lessons about democracy which the black has learnt from the white? What has he learnt about liberty, equality and fraternity? Definitely, the black is none the wise seeing and observing the white. Before we can even contemplate peaceful coexistence between the races, we must appreciate each other's problems. When dealing with each other, white men depend on force. It seems that the status quo is preserved by violence. The basis for all racial conflicts are religious, political and cultural. It happens that the white are far less tolerant than the black. Generally, the white love to be superior and wield power. People think in stereotypes. They fear of other people who are e.g. visually different from them. The only way to get a hearing is through violence. Violence improves our status, encourages others respect us as a force to be reckoned with. Violence is sometimes a well-tried means of achieving peace and can succeed where other means are bound to fail.
Racist beliefs have been used to justify genocide, chronic poverty and the maintenance of systems of inequality - such as South African Apartheid. The whole of the recorded history of human race, that tedious documentation of violence, has taught us absolutely nothing. We have still not learnt that violence never solves a problem but makes it more acute. The sheer horror, the bloodshed, the suffering mean nothing.
