<ICLE-PO-POZ-0033.1>

Human are social animals. Since the dawn of time they have always formed communities. Living and working together gives them the feeling of safety and consequently a good opportunity of peaceful development. As man has become more and more sophisticated, the structure of the communities he lived in has changed as well. Simple tribes have turned into huge societies, and little dwelling-sites have become big cities. Their role, however, has always been the same: to offer security and support for individuals.
People, the best mentally developed species in the world, physically belong to the weakest. This is probably why they prefer living in groups rather to living alone. Society, a monstrous human group, is the highest form of human community. It gives people the necessary illusion of security. An individual believes he is never left on his own, as he is surrounded by other people. He counts on them, relies on their support, as there will always be somebody whose task is to help him. Indeed, in such a big organisation as today's societies are, everyone is ascribed their specific and important role. There are people who are supposed to cure and those supposed to extinguish fire, there are some whose task is to teach, and those who have to keep law and order. Life is organized and humans are dependent on each other, which, on the one hand, makes them less helpless, on the other, puts them in charge of others, developing their feeling of responsibility.
It seems, however, that today's immense social organisms are not oases of safety and peace any longer. People appear to lose control over huge communities which instead of tranquil and secure life offer danger and violence. Society causes too much pressure on its members, and social conventions, responsibilities and various social tasks, all intrinsicly connected with living in a city, confine city-dwellers and eventuate in multifarious abnormalities in their behaviour. Overpowering stress and ubiquitous "other people" deprive city-inhabitant of free time and privacy, result in stomach ulcers, fetishism, obesity and murder.
Indeed, society seems to have lost its basic role which has always been to offer security and support. Today's cities are inhabited by nervous and stressful humans, who have become more and more insecure, and less and less free. Truly, it looks as if people were created for cities, and not cities for people.
