<ICLE-PO-POZ-0023.1>

"We stand in the face of environmental disaster by pushing countless plants and animals to the brink of extinction. If nothing changes soon, there will be no future for  mankind on  earth." Such alarming messages are sent all over the world by environmentalists, who put forward the thesis that the world inexorably aims toward self-destruction. As major culprits of such a situation, they point to big business enterprises whose activities are said to  contribute to  ecological degradation. As a solution to the most serious environmental crises, the environmentalists suggest the use of  so-called restorative behavior. This means that by using  safe procedures, the environmental degradation will be slowed down and in fact reversed. Earth's sources can begin to be restored.  Among the safe procedures recommended by environmentalists are several which are both friendly to the environment and profitable to business.
One of the procedures that business can adopt is recycling. Recycling is a good alternative to the disposal of industrial waste products. Generally known is the fact that waste products like wrappings cannot be easily biodegraded as they usually require a long span of time for decomposition. Recycling reduces waste disposal and, at the same time, lessens the degradation of the environment. With recycling, dumping grounds would be less burdened with trash. This in turn will reduce the danger of toxic leakage into the soil and lessen the possibility of underground water pollution. Recycling  protects the environment and, at the same time, brings profits to business.  By reusing container products, the companies need less of them to produce. They will not have to spend as much money on new material as they will be able to use the recycled substances.
Another way of preventing  environmental degradation is by reducing the use of fossil fuels. We should  mobilize  clean energy sources instead of sticking to coal. An economy based on solar or tidal sources of energy will contribute to the lessening of  carbon dioxide omission and other toxic gas emission into the atmosphere. Following this course of action will reduce acid rain, which destroys forests. It will also give an economic advantage to big enterprises. By investing in clean energy sources, business will plug into sources which will never run out. Such an investment will be beneficial in two ways. First, companies relying on clean sources will not have to pay for coal, which is expensive. Second, they will avoid penalty fees for polluting the air.
The last procedure suggested here is reforestation. It can be applied in the case of Central America rain forests. The destruction of this area is caused by the American fast food industry. Trees are cut down to give room for cattle, which are used by food chains as meat for hamburgers. The clearance of rain forests has already brought about over-grazing and erosion to the land.  Reforestation proposed as a possible solution to this problem will be profitable to business and the environment. Big companies will make use of the regrown trees and, at the same time, further degradation of rain forests will be restrained.
The procedures mentioned above show  that possibilities exist to stop the degradation of the environment. By adopting such procedures as recycling of waste products, exploitation of new sources of energy, and reforestation, we can prevent such disasterous consequences as water pollution, toxic gas emission to the atmosphere, and degradation of rain forests. On the other hand, if business continues its old ways, there will be nothing left for posterity.
