<ICLE-PO-POZ-0034.2>

In the midst of everyday-life activities and problems we feel oppressed and alone. Rushing to school, work, or shopping we pass by many people whom we do not know and we are not interested in their troubles and details of their lives. This relationship acts both ways - other people are also indifferent about our needs and feelings. Even people whom we consider to be our friends, or at least close acquaintances, can hardly help us to suppress the feeling of loneliness and sometimes even alienation. Our problems are either different or we are afraid of being ridiculed; therefore, we preffer not to share the dilemmas with others. Books and magazines seem to be a kind of escape for lonely people. The lonely read them to see someone experiencing the hardship of life, facing the problems they have themselves; they read to know they are not alone.
Simple as it may seem, books, letters, magazines, and even some newspaper articles help people in their lives. In most works authors describe human existence and notice human problems. They touch immortal, phylosophical issues as well as small and trivial matters. They show, for example, that sometimes it is extremely difficult for a family to take care of a handicapped child, to resist in their love and not let the child be taken to a special treatment house. We can read about broken engagements and marriages, letting down friends, financial straits of big companies and small families. We read about a single woman rearing a child, about an alcoholic father, about incest,and about death of close friends or relatives. We are often allowed by the authors to see people not only getting in trouble but also overcoming them. We can observe the protagonists finding some solution, the panacea, an exit to the light.
People need a kind of confession. They can be both a person confessing the problems or listening to them. People have to have a purification of their lives, a way out of all intangled details and aspects of their existence. If they do not have friends they read books to become one of the characters and overcome both their and the character's dilemmas together. Such a katharsis is not a contemporary issue. It was brought up by Aristotle in ancient Greece and "has served" people since then. People need to share the problems to see they are not alone.
