<ICLE-PO-POZ-0018.2>

The process of the westernization of Poland began to operate in 1989 when the communist government was defeated in general elections. The new government initiated several reforms which allowed western businessmen to invest their capital in Polish industry and agriculture. However, these businessmen not only brought to Poland their money, but they also affected the nation socially and practically.
The first symptom of the westernization can be observed in the streets and on the market. Polish shops are flooded with foreign goods of different kinds. A great number of Poles still prefer buying western articles to home made ones. Furthermore, there is more English names in the streets than Polish ones. Most shops are named in American way and most firms have got foreign names, too.
Next, some Polish businessmen, imitating the western models introduced fast food restaurants in Poland. You can see such places in almost every main street. However, the only food you can buy there is a hamburger or a hot-dog. Besides, it seems to have been good idea to build fast food restaurants, because earlier there had been no places to eat cheap food while doing shopping.
At the same time Poles started to imitate western style of life. Money began to function as the most important value. People evaluate others taking into consideration their appearance and the state of their bank accounts.
Furthermore, clerks working in banks and offices are now wearing suits and costumes. They always look smart, tidy and professional. They are usually polite and helpful towards a customer.
However, the strongest influence of western countries upon Poland could have been observed in 1989. Then, the Polish government decided to introduced capitalism in a form which pervaded in most western countries. It initiated a great deal of economic and political reforms to establish western-oriented government and parliamentary system.
Finally, the process of westernization affected also the policy of Polish governments. They tried to adjust laws and rules of free market economy to Polish reality. That is why the stock exchange was established or Value Added Tax was introduced.
In conclusion, the impact of western countries on the Polish nation has been immense and undeniable. However, Poles should learn to distinguish between true values and the treacherous ones. Only the former ones ought to be transplanted into Polish social and political system.
