<ICLE-PO-POZ-0013.2>

When an Englishman says he is a student, he simply makes a statement about a certain phase of life when one goes to school to get his education. In case of a Pole, however, a similar utterance is more likely to be the emphasis of his social status, rather than a general piece of information. This kind of attitude may seem somewhat surprising, considering that for the last fifty years we had so-called 'democracy' and free education. For years Polish authorities prided themselves on the availability of higher education to all citizens, irrespective of their economic status or family backgrounds. Indeed, there was a time when grants and inexpensive student accomodation were easily available, but it is all long gone now. In fact, the present situation is far from looking rosy. What are the facts then?
First of all, the very structure of Polish educational system leaves much room for improvement. Compared to other countries, it seems old-fashioned and not well developed at all. In the times when Western Europe introduces more and more of so-called mature student schemes, in Poland there are still only two basic forms of higher education available. These are full-time and weekend university studies, each lasting five years and ending in a master degree. The length of courses is a major drawback for many a potential student, simply because they cannot afford to pay all the expanses involved. There have been first attempts to introduce shorter, three-year bachelor courses; however, the whole idea is still relatively new.
Unlike weekend courses, full-time study is still free in most places, but since the majority of students does not work, they have to rely on their parents for the money. This makes higher education inaccessible for some people, for it is the financial status of a particular family, which determines their children's futures.
Someone might argue, that in other countries it is only some students who get the financial support from their parents. Others have to both study and make their own livings. We must not forget, however, that there are significant differences in the way Polish and Western-european societies are organised. Therefore what applies there, may often not be possible in our country. In England, for instance, there are special organisations helping students to find part-time work, Polish students, though, have to count entirely on themselves. We used to have special employment agencies for them too, but they are unfortunately a thing of the past now. Apparently it is all related to the acute crisis on the Polish job market.
Even if there are vacancies, however, employers usually prefer a person with a few-year work experience to a student, no matter how knowledgeable the latter might be. The only exception are language students, as well as people specialising in certain ares of business and computing, who are always sought after by many companies.
Landing a job, though, is just the first step and keeping it is another problem. University activities are in many cases scheduled in such a way, that they make employment impossible. Lack of regular school hours, long breaks between consecutive lectures and often having to go to different buildings for different classes, are the things Polish students frequently complain about. In Poznan, students of certain faculties often have to travel all around the city in order to attend their classes.
Even after graduation some people are not particularly successful in finding work. In certain cases it is due to shortage of positions to be taken. Sometimes, though, it is mainly because their education is too general. The end of 20th century is the time of increasing specialisation and narrowing down of all fields of science. I believe that this phenomenon should be reflected in our educational system by a better choice of university faculties, as well as a wide range of evening classes. Apart from regular university instruction, alternative forms of adult education, such as open universities, correspondence courses and so on, should be developed, so that more people can further their studies.
In Japan, which is one of the world's richest countries, the value of good education is understood as early as primary school. Pupils have to work really hard to get a place at some good college and teachers are among the top-earners in the country. Some of our politicians, while talking about their vision of Poland's economic progress, like to use the expression 'second Japan'. We will never become like Japan, though, unless we reform our educational system.
