<ICLE-PO-POZ-0019.2>

Talking about sex usually arouses such different and rather unexpected adults' reactions as disgust, shame, embarrassment, anxiety, and, finally, a feeling of offence. It is quite frequent and common as well that some grown-up people treat sex as a complete taboo, the issue the is not to be discussed and talked about at all. Meanwhile, teenagers experiencing fundamental and rapid changes in both their body systems and personalities are in desperate need of open discussion of their problems and of unprejudiced touching on the subject of sex. Thereby, the compulsory introduction of sexual education into secondary schools' syllabuses constitutes a justified and an irrevocable move in helping youngsters throughout a most difficult period of puberty.
Many people object to the plan of introducing sex education as a subject in schools arguing that it is going to serve solely as an instruction lesson of how to properly carry out sexual intercourses. In fact, sex education is far more than merely acquainting young people with a practical side of erotic affection. Primarily, it aims at providing pupils with some intelligible and credible information concerning psychological and physiological development of both sexes. This programmed instruction focuses, in other words, on making young people aware of the current changes occurring in their psyche and body and on teaching them how to accept these processes without any inhibitions. Additionally, the classes attempt to make the everyday social contacts with members of opposite sex easier and less stressful for students. They also emphasise the significance of different human relations like love or friendship and help to get to know and accept young people's most personal feelings and emotions. Thereby, sex education due to its overall approach towards the subject supplies the students with basic and necessary knowledge about sex. It does not at all treat it as the ultimate object of study but rather places it in an appropriate context of such important correlations as maturity and social responsibility.
The opponents of the scheme also often say that supplying young people with the knowledge concerning sex is solely parents' job and responsibility which should not be claimed by school. Yet, parents very often are not aware of the problems and doubts their children are currently dealing with. They easily forget what kind of stress and trouble they themselves experienced when they were teenagers. Their children's worries and confusion about certain things may seem funny, not serious and not worth mentioning to them. Meanwhile, teenagers are utterly embarrassed and ashamed when they are to discuss sex and other equally tickish issues with their mothers and fathers. They do not know if they can count upon the parents' understanding and discretion or rather expect some critical remarks and false imputations. A school, thus, appears to be an ideal institution where such an education could take place. Young people are among friends and acquaintances which share not only common interests and hobbies but also problems connected with adolescence. Therefore, the explanation of perplexing issues may go on in a friendly and propitious atmosphere without needless stress and uneasiness that usually accompanies similiar conversations with parents.
Finally, the antagonists of placing sex education in secondary schools like to prove that teachers are not at all ready and capable of presenting the subject to their students. They lack both the relevant knowledge and the necessary experience. Indeed, classes conducted by an unprepared and embarrassed teacher who has been forced to do it by order of superior authority would not make much sense. The task of discussing the issues of sex can be performed properly and achieve its ultimate goal only if it is carried out by professionally trained and familiar with the topic people. Only experts can provide the knowledge and answer the in- coming questions in a clear and unambiguous way. Sex education needs, thereby, the same treatment as any other subject - qualified professionals and not fortuitous and reluctant people - if it is to be received with trust and appreciation on the part of students.
All in all, the issue of sex education among the teenagers at school belongs to one of the most urgent and burning problems of the time. It is beyond all question that some decisive steps need to be taken immediately if the matter is to be treated with due recognition and respect.
