<ICLE-PO-POZ-0017.2>

For almost four years Polish people have been living under a new system introduced by the government of Mr Mazowiecki. This system brought immense changes both in political and social structure of the country. There are at least four aspects of social change in the Poznan region which result from the introduction of a new form of government.
Since 1989 Poland seems to have been proceeding towards the model of a class conscious country. Poznan follows that pattern. During the last three years two socially contrastive groups became clearly distinguishable - that of the poor and the rich. Those two groups have been steadily increasing in number. However, at the same time the gap between them becomes deeper and deeper. Before the new system was introduced the very fraction of the Poznan society had not been visible. Nowadays in Poznan one can see beggars everywhere - in street corners, churches or a railway station. At the beginning people were concerned about them. The poor were given money, food, or clothes. However in due time the average city dweller have become more indifferent. They simply got used to beggars and now they do not help them so eagerly. As to the rich, they came into being after the communist regime had been abolished. In previous times the rich constituted a hermetic and isolated group of the top party members. Since 1989 the structure of this group has been radically changed. In due course the communists were replaced by new people, mainly connected with business. Now those people contribute greatly to the prosperity of the town and that is why they are respected by the remaining part of the society.
During the years since 1989 the inhabitants of Poznan have also changed their attitude towards foreigners. On the whole they are friendly and tolerant. However, when a great tide of Romanian people came to Poznan they began to show negative or even hostile attitude towards them. The same pattern of behaviour applies to Russians. An average city dweller feels threatened by them, because they contributed to the increase of criminal offences such as robbery, theft or deception. According to the statistics, in 1992 Russian citizens committed 1,5% of all crimes in the Poznan region. The attitude towards the citizens of the Western countries is diametrically opposed to the one presented above. Most of Poznan inhabitants are friendly and hospitable towards, for example, Germans or Japanese. The reason is that people understand that the more foreign investments in Poznan the richer the city and its dwellers will be in the future.
Another area where social changes can be visible is the area of interpersonal relationships. People in the Poznan region have become more indifferent towards each other since 1989. They take care only for themselves or at most for their families. Most of them do not pay any attention to their fellow-townsmen. It happens quite often that neighbours in a block of flats know hardly anything about each other. The possible reason can be that nowadays people are more absorbed by their jobs, career, and making money than they were before 1989. Another distinctive feature of the Poznan society is envy, which should be mainly understood in a financial context. The inhabitants of Poznan envy each other a better social position, success, job or a car. What seems to be even worse, they overtly show their jealousy. In extreme cases such as attitude towards the fellow-townsmen may be transformed into agression. For example, according to the police statistics more and more city dwellers use guns to solve their problems.
The Poznan region develops according to the model imposed on it by the Western countries. In a way, it is likely that social relationships in Poznan will resemble those in Berlin or Paris after some time.
