<ICLE-PO-POZ-0006.2>

It is said that man is one of those creatures who needs companion to develop his personality and skills. Although almost everyone needs some loneliness from time to time, he needs much more someone to rely on. That is why a little girl looks for a friend to play with her in a sand box, a boy spends so much time with his peers riding a bicycle and that is why a man looks for a woman with which he could spend the rest of his life. If he is lucky he will succeed. However, for men, unlike for women, the rediness for being together for good and bad does not always equal "marriage". The reason is that women and men percieve "marriage" in slightly different ways.
For a woman marriage is something she tries to achieve. Her intelectual and vocational success is as much important as the social one. Marriage is one of her goals that she establishes as soon as she is ready to think about her future. Although a woman is aware of the fact that marriage may not give her happiness she much more prefers to be an unhappy wife than an unhappy spinster. She even feels stigmatised by society as a spinster and that is why she tries to get rid of this label. Definitely a woman (at least most of them) is not afraid of marriage. Somehow biologically she is created as someone who can and wants to take care of anyone who needs her help or support. Consequently as a wife she fulfils her duties not only as  a housewife but also as the best friend of her husband and children. She is not afraid of hard work because all she needs is someone who is ready to accept her sacrify. That is why while making a vow she thinks about herself as  a lucky person: there is a man whom she loves, who loves her, who needs her and who is ready to be with her till the end of life. One of her life aims has been achieved.
A man is much more reluctant about marriage. Although he needs a woman to make him happy, he wants to have a cake and eat it. He wants to have a woman but at the same time he wants to be free, The woman he loves is not in the center of his interests, she is only a necessary addition to them. However as time goes, when he becomes socially mature and more responsible, certain hierarchy of values changes. He feels that he wants his own family, to support it and to be the head of it. He does not percieve marriage as a cage from which there is no escape, but more as a duty to be fulfiled. On the other hand, because he is not afraid to be called a bachelor (even with this label he'll be attractive to women), his decision about marriage is well thought and a woman he wants to marry may be sure that he really loves her (at least at the moment of making a vow ...).
A woman expects something different from marriage than a man does. Still, there is at least one reason for which they get married and then live together with their children, problems and joys. This reason is love. This strong feeling tights relationship between a man and a woman, helps to fight together against trouble, helps to understand them one another and finaly strengthens them to make a crucial decision to say "I shall abandon you."
