<ICLE-PO-POZ-0025.1>

Although the modern world has developed many effective facilities to relieve the physical effort of people at work, the need for fitness is still alive in it. There are various reasons one may plead to justify one's commitment to exercise. On the whole, they differ according to a whole range of the functional purposes exercising can serve and to the emotional motivations of practitioners. As a result, some persons may be accused of being maniacs, while others, not necessarily exerting themselves less, recognised as sensible self-carers only.
The tastes and conducts of thousands of people are dictated by the public fashion rules; it is not striking then that the selection and practice of physical activities by the interested follow suit. Nowadays, for a person to be universally considered attractive certain conditions must be met, one of them being a slim, agile and sexy figure. Unfortunately, in many cases the condition happens to be absolutely compulsory for an individual to be at all noticed and approved. Our times are hard for the short, the plump and the lame. Therefore, it is quite common that not only people who are but also those who suspect themselves to be in some respect deficient, will soon become obsessed with the idea of getting themselves immediately into shape by all the available means and at any cost. It is here that we find the majority of maniacs, whose whole sense of living is filled with the one wish to be slender and sexy. Fitness identified as the way of achieving that aim may then counterproductively contribute to a person's breakdown entailed by his or her unquenched ambition, simply because nature does not enable us all to be perfectly trim and shapely.
Besides those ever-struggling and never-satisfied practitioners of exercise, there is another set of people who suffers from the idea of fitness as well, for some other reasons, however. These are the flabby, timid and irresolute, who would like to say yes to exercise, but who lack the courage to put on the tracksuit and run out, in fear of changing their fixed image born in mind by their relatives, acquaintances and neighbours. Shyness or the fear of being possibly ridiculed paralises them, and so they stay home, torn apart by the attacking wishes and the cooling fear, totally unhappy. Most often they become by-standers or viewers of the events which they cannot dare to take part in themselves. Their personal motivation is much lower than that of the maniacs, which results from that they would often take up exercising for just pleasure and good health and not for the necessity to reform the appalling appearance.
Luckily, there is still another group of people, the largest one, who recognise self-exertion as something actually beneficial to their bodies and minds, and who thus maintain the necessary amount of common sense in viewing the question, thanks to either their strong personalities or favourable social atmosphere. They comprehend that exercise is not a way of life, nor should it be a source of distress. It is intended, as long as its advocates are pure amateurs, to increase their motor ability, calm their nerves, secure to them a relatively shapely figure (compatible with their natural predispositions), improve their breathing system, and, most of all, to provide them entertainment and satisfaction. Fitness never ought to be the ultimate goal in itself, but a factor stimulating our sense of happiness and enhancing or facilitating our functioning in the contemporary society.
The clear-cut division I have sketched above may arouse objections whenever we think of ourselves as of individuals endowed with an extent of unique idiosincrasy which determines our lifestyle. Yet, however imperfect the scheme may appear, it reflects some universal pattern which people cling to in everyday life, not only when addressing fitness and exercise. Among those who feel truly concerned with a given element of reality there will always be both addicted maniacs and complexed dreamers, spanning the space occupied by a sensible majority who are able to somehow reconcile their needs to their activities and preserve a fresh, realistic and untroubled mind. Only such exhibited common sense and moderation can give you a real bit of success, in exercising as well.
