<ICLE-PO-POZ-0001.2>

Learning that in some countries children are taught about television came as a surprise to me. How? Why? What for? I do not understand.
Why should anybody teach children about television? I have always thought that television is doing irreparable harm. When children are allowed to watch television, they stop reading books. Watching television does not require any work from your brain. And an organ which is not used is said to deteriorate very quickly. So then, maybe by allowing children to watch television, we make it impossible for them to develop mentally? Maybe by letting them sit for hours in front of this one-eyed monster we deprive them of the most useful thing they possess - their imagination? It would really be a horror to live among people with no imagination and no brains. I myself would not like to have brainless friends or, much worse, brainless children.
Television does not show children the real world. It only gives them the pleasure to watch handsome and brave men, beautiful, weak women and healthy children loved by their families. On television there is no place for cripples, divorces and murders, for pain, humiliation, fear and this sort of everyday events. And even if they are shown it is usually late at night when children cannot see them. On one hand it seems natural to keep children out of any shock they could experience, but on the other hand would it not be sensible to show them that sometimes also bad things happen and that normal is not always good. They would surely get a clearer picture of the world. Why then teach children about television if it cannot give them any profits?
Unfortunately here, I have come to the point in which I have to admit that all the statistical data say something very important. Whether we like it or not, children spend many hours sitting in front of a TV-set and gaping bluntly in the screen. Children do not choose which programmes they want to see. They just sit and watch everything as it goes (with films, discussions, commercials, etc.) Being aware of the fact that this is the case with TV, I now understand some people's idea to teach children about television. Because it can be useful and pleasant as long as you choose programmes and not just watch everything. Television can give children an opportunity to see places they have never seen. Television can show children what is bad and what is good. Television can teach.
Now, if we assume that it is impossible to stop children from watching TV, I think it is a good idea to teach them how to take the most of it, how to watch TV in a proper way. If this is the aim of classes teaching children about television, then I am in favour!
