<ICLE-PO-POZ-0037.2>

Live on our planet is unique. Our planet has such conditions as the favourable combination of elements creating the atmosphere, moderate temperature, protective layers of ozone, that created a natural environment in which all sorts of life have been able to develop and exist. Any interference with the earth's ecosystem destroys these favourable conditions. The consequences can lead to the destruction of life on this planet. They also threaten the existence of the very planet. This is what has been happening for years. The fastmoving and technologically complex industrialized world caused air, river and sea pollution, the destruction of the ozone layers, loss of rainforests, and excessive waste. These are only some of the environmental problems facing the modern world. There are, though, some environmentally friendly procedures that business enterprises, mostly responsible for the state of affairs, can undertake to save the environment. At least three procedures can minimalize air pollution, and another three, if followed, may halp to control and manage waste disposal.
The three procedures that can be adopted by business enterprises to minimize excessive air pollution are the following: replanting trees, eliminating a carbon-based economy, and changing technologies that produce vehicles.
The first procedure concerus trees, the most important suppliers of oxygen. For such reasons as acid rain and excessive use of wood for celluse industry, we have been facing a shortage of forests. These drastically limit the amount of oxygen in our atmosphere. Business enterprises, especially those responsible for the destruction of forests, should monitor and finance massive replanting of trees. Every bit of land, especially around factories and plants, should be filled with new trees. This procedure, however, treats only the results of technological development. The second procedure concerns the core of the problem, the technology. One possible solution to the environmental problems would be supplantinga carbon-based economy with one based on hydrogen and sunshine. This will reduce not only enormous amounts of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere during the combustion of carbon, but also minimize the use of oxygen from the atmosphere needed for that chemical reaction. Solar or wind power could be adopted particularly by power stations. They mostly contribute to air pollution. The third environmentally safe procedure is also connected with technology. The car industry produces vehicles run on leaded petrol. This causes an enormous emission of pernicious fumes into the air. Therefore, car producers should either manufacture vehicles equipped with catalytic converters or change their technologies and produce cars run only on unleaded gas.
Another three procedures can be adopted by enterprises to cope with and manage waste. One environmentally friendly way to dispose of glass bottles is, for example, to create bottle banks. In such places bottles can be gathered, sorted out, cleaned and prepared for further use. This will not only solve the problem of accumulated waste, but also protect natural resources used for producing glass. Another way of dealing with waste is to use plastic bottles as raw materials for producing textiles. Such technology has already been invented and adopted by Wellman, Inc. , a fiber producing company. It is involved in manufacturing a 100% polyester fabric from plastic bottles. The fabric, Fortel Ecospun, is used for producing rests, jackets or blankets. The last environmentally friendly technology concerns the car industry. The idea of recycling has also been introduced by BMW, an auto manufacturing company in Germany. Their newer models are produced with specially designed parts that can be later used in the production of new vehicles. These parts are made from a limited range of plastics. In this way when a car is trashed the plastic parts can be later melted down and reused as material for a number of applications.
The environmental problems facing the present world are enormous and cannot be neglected. There is a great need to protect clean air and a number of ways to achieve this. Replanting trees and changing technologies into more environmentally friendly ones are only some of the procedures that can be undertaken by business enterprises. The other major problem of waste disposal can be solved by means of recycling and reusing raw materials.
