<ICLE-PO-POZ-0028.2>

Books are getting less and less popular today. Such a situation is due to the fact that people, being more and more tired and disappointed with their lives, prefer easier entertainment, namely watching television or playing the computer. In fact, being not interested in reading books, they do not realize what they are missing. Books, being filled with practical wisdom, are the best compass on the seas of loneliness. There are many kinds of books; thanks to a wide variety of subjects they present, each of us can find a book for himself or herself. Many people believe that books are the best friends, as, thanks to them, we are never left alone.
For example, there are many psychological books which teach us how to heal our lives. I believe that such books are very important, especially today, as our lives are getting more and more difficult. They may help you fight depression or give the feeling of encouragement; sometimes they are simply the best proof that there is somebody who cares for you and who really wants to help you. Such books are extremely important, because they give us advice and help us get through the most difficult times of our lives. One of such books, namely "Toxic Parents", written by a famous American psychologist Susan Forward, is an excellent guide for parents. Showing how much parents' behavior influences their children's lives, the book makes us aware of the importance of our actions.
But not each of us enjoys reading psychological books, no matter how useful they may be. Some of us may find science-fiction books interesting. In fact, such books help us forget about the world which surrounds us; also, they help us forget about our loneliness. Full of unreal events, they show the world which is more beautiful than the world in which we do live. S. King's book, for example, the title of which is "Shining", is a wonderful company for at least a few hours. Once you start reading it, you will probably forget about all your problems.
There are also scientific books, which, explaining different phenomena, can guide you through the world. They are the best teachers; filled with photographs, they help us realize what is really interesting in the world around us. They can teach us about historical events, biology, or geography. In fact, people who do not read such books are missing a lot.
Thanks to books our lives can be changed for the better. Although each of us has different preferences as far as books are concerned, we all can find something for ourselves. In fact, no matter if a given book makes us laugh or cry; what is important is that each book can give us the reassuring feeling that we are not alone any longer.
