<ICLE-RU-MOS-0004.5>

Life in the whole world has changed radically during the last several decades. Discoveries and technical improvements influenced it greatly. In this day and age most countries pay more attention to its inhabitants and their prosperity instead of thinking of conquering other territories. More positive outlooks were adopted/ People ceased to treat other races as their enemy/ Such acts as Vietnam war and bombardment of Hiroshima and Nagasaki seem to be practically impossible nowadays. Political and economic course of the majority of the countries is based on the development of friendly relationships between nations. Danger of the global war was minimized. Nevertheless army still occupies an important position in the life of society. As for me I do not know any more or less big country which at all.
Practically in every army there exist a military service. And only small proportion of countries has professional army. I would like to concern the military service in this work. Let me cite the Russian one as an example.
According to law every young man over the age of 18 has to go into the army and serve there during 2 years ( an exception is made of those who have physical or intellectual shortcoming ). And here the first disadvantage of the system comes. The boys have to leave their families, friends, jobs; have to give up many things they used to do before. They are practically torn from their everyday life and forced to do something they often do not want to do. What is more, army life is not easy at all. Such fact as 'Dedovshina' is not a secret anymore. Some soldiers suffer from the cruelty of other ones and from that of officers. Even our state oppresses soldiers using them as a free manpower.
Mothers are afraid of sending sons onto the army and do their best to 'save' them from it. And here illegal business prospers: doctors and lawyers can do anything you want if you pay them.
The situation is complicated by wars. The war between Russia and Chechna is a very good example of this kind.
Young soldiers who had just joined the army, who even did not know how to fire, were sent to Chechna. These boys who sometimes hated any weapon and violence and could have been afraid of death were sent to kill their compatriots, to destroy towns. They had to struggle for the goal they could hardly believe in. And moreover those young people who had just begun to live were very often killed in Chechna. Mothers lost their sons, society lost its members who could have done good to it, but were forced to go into the army and were killed there.
All the above-mentioned facts can lead to decay of the whole military system in this country. Of course, men should be acquainted with the system of defense, just in case. Undoubtedly, they should be taught all these things somewhere, but not in the army.
As far as the army is concerned it must consist entirely of professional soldiers, who love their job. They must, beyond any doubt, be taught at military academies. The most important thing about this is that they should become soldiers at their own will. Only then the army should be respected.
I suppose that this problem needs its solution badly. Army is very important nowadays therefore government should pay more attention to it. The system of military service must be abolished gradually and professional army should take its place as soon as possible.
