<ICLE-RU-MOS-0013.2>

To my mind, it is not quite true that nowadays there is no longer a place for dreaming and imagination. Although I agree that our modern life is dominated by science, technology and industrialisation, I think people still have their dreams. Imagination even helps us to survive in our 'industrial' world. Our dreams are as ever much better than our reality. One should always have a hope for something good, something romantic. That's the reason why all over the world melodramatic films and books are so popular, especially among women. Sometimes these films and books are improbable and so primitive that everybody sees the usual 'happy end' with the wedding from the very beginning. But nevertheless women like to read these books, to watch these films because there a woman finds the realisation of her own dreams, of something she had imagined lots of times before and now she can see it in 'reality'.
Actually, I think that here we deal with human potential ability to dream and imagine and with efforts that a person makes for his dreams to come true. Imagination gives us a power of creation. Not all of us, of course, have great imagination and even less can express it. It's a gift of God when you can write, paint or create music because you should be very talented to make all your dreams come true, so that other people would also believe in them. Great writers, artists and composers often live in their dreams, their imagination creates a new reality for them and their readers, listeners and spectators. But I think that all of us create a small new individual world for ourselves, but not all of us would let somebody see our own world.
Real life is not like our dreams. Usually we think about our work, about money we need. Our life now depends on science, technology and industrialisation. Their products help us a lot, they make it easier to work, they bring comfort to our homes. But benefits of modern technology have also a bad side. We become dependent on computers, on the 'artificial intellect'. We prefer to solve our problems with the help of technology, not using our own brains. Of course, one may say that computers are man-made machines, that lots of great scientists have to think, imagine and work for these machines' production but there are millions of users who don't care how their computer 'comes to life'. They only need it working good and properly so that they won't have any problems. And the answer to this question lies in the field of man's imagination. We, people, have our dreams and thoughts, no machine has them. Every man has his own individuality. His imagination can be great or small but still he possesses it. It influences the way he lives, he thinks, he works. We sometimes say about a person that he's 'machine like', but even this person can have his own dreams. They could be primitive or practical but it's just a question of his ability to imagine.
Our 'industrial', 'technological' life is full of stresses. People get tired of their work. For example, you are working at some factory standing all day long at the conveyer. You move automatically every day, you don't think. Very soon you begin to feel as if you were part of this conveyer. This monotonous work makes you sick, you don't want to be a machine. Your soul and your imagination need feelings and emotions. And you turn to something that was created by somebody else's imagination (of course, your imagination can also create but as I've already said not all of us are talented enough to express it). A lot of people love drama and they often go to different theatres to get an emotional supply there. Some of us prefer to go to different kinds of concerts and listen to music. Or, probably, one would buy a ticket  to some comedy show or circus. Tastes differ. Our imagination prompts us where to go. It helps to find a way  out of our stresses, it gives us hope for better future. No matter how 'technological' or 'industrial' life is there is always a place for dreaming and imagination. At least I believe in it.
