<ICLE-RU-MOS-0003.2>

Social equality is one of the most controversial values of modern society. Over the centuries, Christianity has been promoting an idea of all men being equal in the eyes of God. Since the French revolution equality, brotherhood and freedom have been proclaimed the highest virtues of any society. It is widely recognised now that a country could be considered civilised only if the equality of all human beings translated into social relationship clearly implies that all men should have equal opportunities, i.e. equal starting conditions.
However, people are different in terms of their talents, dedication, goals in life, etc. This difference seems to deny the very idea of equality. Human ambition makes people seek positions of power which promote the sense of their exceptional value for society and superiority over other more humble human beings. Excessive ambition is a theme addressed in the best pieces of the world's literature. Macbeth has become a symbol of disaster caused by excessive ambition, Raskolnikov showed the world what happens if a person considers his life more valuable than the life of other persons, however useless or insignificant. An ambitious desire of a person or a group of persons to prove themselves and the entire world that they are smarter, better, more deserving than others gave rise to all racist theories, the consequences of which in the XXth century are too well known.
Hopefully, one of the lessons the mankind has learned in this century is that a society based on social or racial inequality - slavery, fascism, communism, apartheid - is not only immoral, but is doomed to backwardness. If the slave labour were effective, Russia would have the highest living standards in the world., and the communist regime would have prospered. Even the opponents of the idea of human equality are presently forced to admit that this concept is widely recognised as just and stimulating. G. Orwell's catch phrase reflects the need to pay at least lip service to equality even by the worst totalitarian regimes - true, 'all animals are equal', but with 'some animals being more equal than others', the status quo is restored. The appearances are saved but the basic principle of inequality is in place.
The most common arguments against social equality are that it looks nice on paper but  is unattainable in real life, that natural inequality of men makes social equality a dream, a desired goal at best. Therefore, 'some animals' have always been and will always remain 'more equal than others'. It cannot be denied that some people are more talented, energetic, sophisticated than others. However, the world will be a better and more secure place to live in if the advocates of human equality persistently worked on promoting a better understanding of what it actually means in terms of social relationship and social justice rather than hypocritically shutting their eyes to natural inequality. People have to feel that they are valuable members of their society regardless of the amount of their personal contribution to its development, let alone the colour of their skin, ethnic origin, 'party membership' or other such privileges or disadvantages.
