<ICLE-RU-MOS-0010.2>

For centuries women absolutely had no legal rights: political, civil and family. Women were supposed to be gentle and quiet. They had to follow their husbands as it is said in the Bible: 'wives, submit yourself unto your own husbands, the husband is the head of the wife. The wife see that she reverence her husband.'
If I'm not mistaken it were the Victorian Times that brought up a question about woman status. An unconventional phenomenon of a female-writer appeared. Three women - Bronte, George Eliot, Elisabeth Browning took liberties to claim the female's capacity as far as the power of mind was concerned.
I would like to make reference to the words from 'The French lieutenant's woman' by John Fowles, which reflect a traditional female role and a traditional attitude to a woman. 'He could not be angry with her. After all, she was only a woman. There were so many things she must never understand: the richness of male life, the enormous difficulty of being one to whom the world was rather more than dress and home and children. Like so many daughters of rich parents, before and since she had been given no talent except that of conventional good taste, that is, she knew how to spend a great deal of money in dressmakers, milliners and furniture shops. That was her province!'
Since then a new movement called  'feminism' arose. 'Feminism' is an activity in support of the principle that women should have the same rights and chances as men.
Nowadays the situation is rather complicated. In Western countries by legal right in the majority of fields women are given the opportunity to get  education; to get a promotion if her work . Two different attitudes to the problem of woman's place and two different styles of life are touched upon in Fay Weldon's "Week end" and in Dilly's interview from the View Point.
Both women go out to work, they both have a very satisfying job, with prospects of promotion, opportunities to go abroad. We can presume that they are well-educated young ladies. But Dilly is single and Martha  is married and she's got three kids. Her husband is a freelance designer, he doesn't have permanent payments. He does odd jobs from time to time. It suggests us the guess that the family budget mainly depends on Martha's salary. Martha's life is just an agony. She slaves all day to do all those domestic things which her husband expects her to do: she goes shopping, she cleans the house, she does cooking, she does dishes, she collects kids from school. And even weekend turns out to be a continuation of daily routine. Having guests at country cottage means for Martha not  enjoying the pleasures and greenery, but hard work, cooking vegetables and washing up afterwards. Her husband seems to play a role of minor importance in the family. His only duty is to switch off the TV set, lock up the house and drive the car.
Dilly has absolutely no desire to acquire a family. The prospect of Martha's life does not seem inviting to her and she says if the pattern still remains that a woman is expected to go out to work and to keep the house it will create great problems. Dilly criticises the situation when a woman is expected to sacrifice her job and follow her husband. This, as Dilly  says, suits men, but doesn't suit women.
And there is one more point that I'd like to add which is evident: men are lazy at home, according to an official survey published today. They have about six hours a week more free time than wives, but play very little part in cooking, cleaning, washing, and ironing, according to the social Trends survey by the Central Statistical office. Nearly three quarters of married women claimed to do all or most of the housework, and among married men the proportion of those who admitted that their wives did all or most of the housework was only slightly lower. The survey showed that washing and ironing was the least popular task among men, with only one per cent performing this duty, compared with 89 per cent of women, and 10 per cent sharing equally. Only 5 per cent of men prepare the evening meal, 3 per cent carry out household cleaning duties, 5 per cent household shopping, and 17 per cent wash the evening dishes. But when household gadgets break down, repairs are carried out by 82 per cent of husbands.
To my mind, this is the  main reason why women began a great activity for defence  of their rights. But more often than not women are wrong, they go too far. I think that feminists may do more harm to women than good. We ventured to lose our men, and to lose the real woman. If the man and woman have equal rights, the woman will lose her attraction, her tenderness, her womanliness. She is trying to become a business woman, to acquire the men's qualities, to be strong and independent. But the  woman shouldn't forget  that first of all she is a woman!
