<ICLE-RU-MOS-0016.2>

A man / woman's financial reward should be commensurate with their contribution to the society they live in. By Polina Andreeva.
In my opinion we can't say with certainty, categorically that a person's financial reward should be commensurate with his contribution to the society. This problem is very complicated and I believe that we can't give only one answer to this question. Maybe this theory is even idealistic and it can work only in an ideal society.
But how can we decide whose contribution to the society is more significant? Whose work is more important: the work of a char-lady or the work of a salesman?
It is obvious for me that what an academician or an inventor are doing is of great importance, valuable, useful. People of such professions, including the most famous ones, whose work is dealing with art, scientists should definitely form the elite of the society. Though it is not so in this country, in general it should be true.
But what about the greater part of the society, all those people whose work is not of very noticeable importance or effect? How to discriminate between  the great amount of professions?
Thinking this question over I have come to the conclusion that ideally people should have equal financial rewards on probation, they are taken by the families and are re-educated there. Returning to the subject I should say that perhaps it is not true of the whole country, but not long ago there was a television report from Holland telling us about a University library. Apart from the story about the library itself, there was a notice concerning financial rewards. The reporter pointed out that the salary of the boy who was delivering the books in the library and that of the professor who was working in the university were almost equal. I can't say that I am absolutely sure that it is right, but this fact, in my opinion, shows us vividly the level of the society, in which it is believed that everybody has his right to have good living conditions, that he should live not being indigent, of course if he is working hard and honestly.
Frankly speaking I guess we won't bring this into life, but at least we should strive for such order in our society.
