<ICLE-RU-MOS-0004.2>

Imagination and dreaming are the basis of all human activities. If science technology and industrialisation exist, it means that people can imagine them. At the same time not everyone can imagine a hydroelectric power station in detail. It demands a special mentality. Such mentality on the one hand is a result of personal experience, on the other hand , this experience is always connected with a general tendency to view the world.
Modern technology is not only a result of economical development but also of aesthetic one. These industrial landscapes and other things of the same kind are possible because a century ago there lived people who created new aesthetics of constructive art and architecture. They sought for new forms to express their feelings and their minds generated images that became foundation stones of new culture. We can call such people as people with active imagination. Their pictures, sculptures, projects were absolutely unusual but they were adopted by a substantial majority of contemporaries. Why was it possible?
One of the reasons is that constructive art was so closely connected with innovations in technology that its utility, not always obvious but always real, was discerned by the people. They borrowed fruits of imagination from other people. But such adopting is possible only when your mind is ready to do it. Images, as a rule, are not generated from emptiness. Imagination is a storehouse of allusions, ideas and many other subtle things. An ability to perceive images depends on aesthetic education, which is not a result of learning arts, but a natural product of human daily practice. Every man always plays a part of an aesthete whether he has an impeccable taste or not and even if he never went to school. People with 'passive' imagination ( which can't or doesn't want to affect the world) partly use adopted images. But their unconscious evaluations of every phenomenon ( is it beautiful? could it take place in my dreams? is it compatible with my fantasy?) create an environment in which technology develops.
When people believe that some combinations of colours, or shapes, or something else are not ugly they will reproduce them in their own fantasy. They can be accustomed to any way of imagination. So to image is a very responsible act because people in their imagination can create any unusual thing that can be absolutely inhuman. I mean not some brutal acts, but a situation when a man imagines things which are not of 'human scale'. As a result he can live on the fortieth floor of a sky-scraper like a bird.
But there live people whose way of imagination doesn't coincide with a modern model. They never like modern architecture, they prefer romantic literature, when they speak about music the main idea of their speeches is that a romantic period in music was too short and so modern music is not adequate to the consciousness of their contemporaries. In other words they are people who want time for dreaming. Dreaming really takes a lot of time that is very difficult to find in our crazy world. It is not important whether such man imagines himself as a medieval knight or as an astronaut he tries to defend himself from the modern, very aggressive world. So to dream is very useful for mental health ( of course, not running to extremes). And, I think, we can support these people because everyone of us feels a certain lack of humanism in the modern industrial world.
It is obvious, I believe, that we have to distinguish between imagination and dreaming.
The first one is a mental environment, that is an integral part of a human personality and it exists in our modern world dominated by science technology and industrialisation as well as in any other world which is changing with times. But dreaming is a process that enables us to go astray in the world of imagination. Everyone can take part in it, but not everyone wants to do it, believing that it is a waste of time, nevertheless, a dreamer can always find time and place for dreaming.
