<ICLE-RU-MOS-0002.4>

To begin with I would like to stress that although this topic seemed to be a little bit more acceptable than the others it is still formulated not in the best possible way. What I mean is that the two parts of the statement have no connection between them. It would be the same as to say "because in spring the sun rises earlier, it is no longer possible to sleep at night". The title N 14 (as well as the rest of them) sounds very ambiguous.
The high development of technology logically suggests that dreaming and imagination will be even motivated for it presupposes the arrival of more objects to dream about. A lot of people dream about cars, computers, TVsets, etc. and certainly in this case you can very well employ your imagination.
The others probably wanted to say that technological Revolution has caused revolution in the style and quality of life. Different tools and instruments have been designed to make our life easier. In fact it has been growing into an obsession over the last centuries. Now the problem is not in doing things, but in doing them quicker and in an easier way.
The idea of quickness has changed the minds of people. They want to grasp as much as possible from their lives not only concerning their careers but their possessions, even dogs (especially in Moscow) and holidays. For example, they want to visit as many countries as possible disregarding their lack of interest in these countries. While rushing their ways through lives they forget about their neighbours and friends. People stop caring for others being obsessed with the only passion to accumulate as much of experience of this or that kind as possible. They are ruthless to each other being unable and unwilling to understand their neighbour's psychology, his problems and sufferings. They can't even understand their own psychology, and can't interpret their own dreams. By the way, the last quality disappeared because it was no longer needed. We really don't need imagination of this kind. We have computers to think for us and TVsets to compensate for the lack of imagination. A Scottish psychiatrist R. D. Laing said that "with the arrival of science and technology, and a subsequent obsession to adhere to the unquestionable values of Efficiency, Economy and Neutrality, we have forgotten what "ends" we were pursuing".
Never was science and technology developing so quickly as in this century. And never, as far as our civilisation is concerned, a man came so close to self-destruction. Our "civilised" end has already been calculated and we know for sure that our world will be blown up in the future. I would like to point out that in the XVII, XVIII century people believed in the development and civilisation a great deal more. There were no similar ideas about the resources being extinguished and pollution being able to kill us all. Only Christians believed in the End of the World. Nowadays even those who don't believe in God will have no doubts about this question. Just think of the degree of this pessimism, we known that all our development and achievements have no future.
And never there has been a century comparable to this one with regard to cruelty. Two major wars, Fascism and Stalinism, and much more that happened in the XX century. There never was anything like that in the past centuries. The inquisition would be regarded as children's game to be compared with what we've experienced.
