<ICLE-RU-MOS-0005.4>

It should be mentioned that it is not going to be a new experience for Russia to introduce free-will enlistment in the army or in the navy.
In itself the structure based on the volunteer service goes back to the earliest stage of Russian State arising. As long ago as when Slavonic tribes were waging wars frequently, the tradition of keeping people whose particular pursuit was soldiering took shape.
By the time the feudal system had developed every commander, Prince, had an individual armed force of soldiers. The source of supplies to maintain an armed force were the booty and donations made by men of the same tribe. Very often Russian Princes used Norman hired troops. Later on Princes began calling themselves  noblemen and noblemen started being paid for their service.
It was Peter the Great who organised regular army. Regular troops were raised on the basis of compulsory recruitment introduced in 1705.
The most severe reactionary measure with respect to the soldiering people was the setting-up of military settlements. This novelty was called forth by financial inability of the Government to supply the army with food and ammunition. It was during the reign of the Tsar Alexander I that the government arrived at a decision to make soldiers do agriculture besides military service so that to keep themselves on their own.
After the Crimea War (1853 - 1856) the government carried out a succession of re-organisation in the Russian military system. In 1877 there were adopted new Military Service Regulations according to which it was resolved to abolish compulsory recruitment and to introduce universal military service. All men who had reached twenty years old without differentiation between the estates were considered liable for call-up. The term of the service was reduced to six years.
As far as today's situation in the military service is concerned, this compulsory system seems to be outdated. No civilised democratic society can neglect a free will of any of its citizens. The whole experience of mankind shows that compulsion does not work. As the English saying runs: " You can take a horse to water, but you cannot make him drink ". Besides decent pay should be commensurate with the work, which is not normally stipulated in the Military Service Regulations. On the contrary, soldiers appear to be used as cheap labour.
To my mind the most terrible thing about the structure of the military system in this country is that it is aimed at suppressing the individuality of a person.
Brought together young men from totally different backgrounds, social strata, ( though in this country the difference in social position seems to be not so evident as, for instance, in the United States ), with absolutely incongruous indications of intellectual development and moral principles can hardly do any good. As the result, physical brutalisation is in abundance. The problem of providing soldiers with food is there. Soldiers are often not fed properly.
I am convinced that professional army is the only right solution to be taken. Military people should be a separate layer in the society.
Available are facts that when it comes to adequate reward there is no getting rid of men who have a strong desire to be professional soldiers. One of the newspapers suggested the following statistics: there is a recruitment compaign with competitive examinations in today's Bellorussian army to join up the army by making a contract. The competition is rather impressive: twenty people for a vacancy.
The only thing I would object about professional army is hiring foreign citizens.
It would detract much from the national patriotic spirit of defenders of the Native Land.
