<ICLE-RU-MOS-0007.3>

To begin with I'd like to point out the fact that religion tends to be a very difficult subject for a proper description. The main purpose of every religion doctrine is that of explaining and giving answers to the moral and spiritual questions which every man has to face within his lifetime . There certainly should be some common idea which brings together people all over the world. This connection is very important from the point of view of people's co-relation which can be established if only people have something in common . Everybody knows how difficult it may be to establish a contact with a person if your interests are drastically different . The same can be applied to the whole nations. But this problem has the dark side as well. What I mean are numerous religion wars which 've taken place all over the world in different historical periods up to the present days.
Another important function of religion is that of faith. It seems rather reassuring to know that we don't live in vain, that there exists some particular purpose of our life. Together with this, some general principles of the modern law and social systems are formed according to religious ideas. That is, due to them every nation has some basic conventions which form it into a well organised society.
When considering religion from such a global viewpoint one can't help mentioning that religion is a principle which plays an important part in the life of the whole society. It can also be viewed upon as a concept which takes different shapes within the world's history. If we take paganism, Christianity, Moslemism, Judaism, Buddhism, communism as abstract concepts we'll be able to see that all of them have something in common. That is they have a great influence on the minds and soles of people, they try to explain the main purpose of our existence, they give some high ideas which stand above our every day life, give some aims which people should try to achieve, give moral interpretation to our actions and deeds and try to distinguish between the evil and the good. But more often than not people fail to put these ideas to life. They somehow twist them around and when put into practice these ideas turn out to be rather contrived. In actual fact , we don't try to achieve these spiritual goals but try to make them more appropriate for our mode of life, so that they begin to sound in a more materialistic and pragmatic way.
There also exists another approach , that is when people begin to treat some object in their life as a holy one and worship it. In our modern society this ' golden idol ' is embodied in the growing power of money. It seems to be true that nowadays much depends on the amount of money that a person has at his disposal. But I hope this idea will not remain predominant in the course of time and will be replaced by a more moral concept.
Another predominant principle of our life is the development of professional skills. People sometimes seem to be obsessed with their work. They can't exist without it and their work absorbs all their attention leaving no spare time for relaxation and meditation. This problem seems to be very troublesome and can cause a lot of difficulties. A person can be a distinguished professional in his field and at the same time have no idea about other aspects of life. It somehow narrows one's world outlook.
What I would like to draw your attention to is that the concepts of ' money ' and ' work ' can be regarded as ' religions ' in a broad sense of the word. The fact is that these concepts have a certainly negative connotation when considered as such global principles. When Marx was writing his treatise the word ' religion ' in its direct meaning also had this derogatory connotation in his work. It has turned out that the object of worshipping has changed but still exists in a different form. People themselves create these objects for adoration. Their ideas are widely reflected in the modern TV production. Television is not the source, but the result of our perception of the world around us.
We create television and not vice versa. Television depicts the diversity of our society. I watch television when I have some spare time. Of course there exist a number of people without any particular occupation ( housewives, for example ) who tend to watch TV without any limitations and without any particular purpose. But this is an exception from the rule not the rule itself.
Another problem which is bound to arise in this connection is that teenagers and especially children from 6 to 11 may be influenced by TV greatly. Having no practical experience they take everything they see and hear on the screen seriously. Much depends here on the parents' attitude to the problem : whether they allow their children to see whatever they want or not. Everybody knows that TV today is overwhelmed by the scenes showing violence. In fact, I'm not fond of such films and TV programmes and think it'll do no good showing them to a child.
Together with its psychological function TV is also a very important social factor. Millions of people all over the world form their opinions according to the information they get from TV programmes.
I'd like to conclude by saying that TV plays a very important role in the life of modern society. It reflects different viewpoints and therefore tends to be very variable. TV is an indissoluble part of our life and it'll remain such because it is as much changeable as our life is.
