<ICLE-RU-MOS-0028.4>

Is the prison system really outdated? For me it seems to be a doubtful statement . On the one hand it sounds very seductive: the freedom and equality for all human beings in the world. But this confirmation appears to be a rather turgid theory when one applies it to practice. I mean to say that when we come across a real crime, a subconscious voice immediately appeals to our common sense: "Criminals must be punished".
But both of these notions prove to be superficial in practice. And it wouldn't be mistaken to say that any particular case requires special considering. Different circumstances may bring a person to committing crime. Some people are put in such living (or other) conditions that crime is the only way-out when survival is threatened. And then the question which is bound to arise is, who is to be punished: the criminal or the people (or maybe the government), that put him into such position. But certainly I am not going to decide global problems here, to criticise the government or to give them my recommendations, as I hope that there exist a number of people, who (being  experts in this field) are much better at this kind of activity, than I am.
Sometimes even one meeting with experienced psychologist may prevent a crime. And I have a strong belief that juvenile offenders should never be sent to prison or some other institutions of that kind. Staying among other criminals makes irreparable harm to the young people.
But in spite of these human ideas, considering human psychology, we should keep in mind that total freedom from punishment can bring the mankind unforeseen consequences. There should exist some restraining "device" in the world. Here prisons can be compared with the nuclear weapon: it is a property of civilised countries, which is not being used, but at the present time this is the only tool by means of which World Wars are prevented. Unfortunately people haven't yet invented anything less perilous.
Turning to the fiction we will find no prison only in utopia, in that self-sufficient society where all people have everything they need, so there is absolutely no reason for crime.
To summarise what has been brooded over I need to say, that however sad it may sound, the prisons must not be abolished. But in every case of committing  a crime there should be a much more careful personal approach to the criminal.
But the question keeps being open and it is up to the mankind to solve it.
