<ICLE-RU-MOS-0018.2>

Since the epoque of Hellinistie and Roman civilization, known by the world culture under the name of antiquity, several multinational unions that occupied immense territories appeared and in the course of time went away though leaving their traces in the varied history of mankind.
If we dwell upon Roman Empire we will, obviously, realise that its gradual development was based on the process of state extension. First, there were separate tribes on the Apenine each of which had its own social stratification; then., as a result of certain objective and some subjective reasons ( I will not go into the detial) Latins under the rule of their chief began to dominate, conquered the whole peninsula and soon - other mediterranean states, including city-states of much more civilized and advanced Greeks. But the most significant feature of that great empire and of the following already less striking ones of mediaeval period is the political structure which suggested the head of the state being an absolute ruler of it and the representatives of one nation whose invasions brought together other peoples and established the empire dominating over those who inhabited numerous provincies. There can be no doubt that within the Great Roman Empire Common trade market and intense cultural interchange took place. However, the monstrous political organism with growing inherent problems has been broken into pieces by the inroads of barbarous tribes.
The following historical stage on which we deal already with the whole continent of Europe was marked by a progressive formation of different European nations when various Germanic, Romance, Celtic and Slovonic tribes passed through the long-term process of group opposition to other tribes and of assimilation because    they found themselves on the same territory and in the same living conditions. Each of these nations had maintained its own state up to the XXth century. But by the end of the XIXth century the rapid technical, and consequently economical, progress made business overstep the limits of state frontiers and we got such actual concepts as 'world market' and 'international business '. Besides, much earlier, perhaps at the times of Reneissance, intelligent representatives of different societies realized the unity of human culture. So, the idea of a joint European, and moreover, world culture came into prominence and has been elaborated during the latest four or five centuries.
In spite of these considerable stimuli to peaceful cooperation and intergration political ambitions and craving for an absolute authority led to military confrontations; the most violent conflicts were escalated by Germany and caused the 1st and the 2nd World Wars - wars of a new type that were brought into existence by the running century. After the fashists and  the Japanese armies having been defeated and the World War II having been over, Europe became divided into two opposed political and economical camps: the so called socialist and capitalist ones. It was then that the 'cold war' started. Obviously, the project of a joint European Community did not come to people's minds by chance or on the spur of the moment. In fact, as I see it, the whole history of the XXth century indicates gradual consolidation of the most civilised nations. Apparently, by the end of the 80s an international, then capitalist, market was already successfully operating, while NATO had brought together USA, Canada and the great states of Westen Europe in a military block that was opposed to the one of socialist countries, first and foremost European countries.
Perestroyka started by Gorbachov in the Soviet Union, disintegration of the latter caused totally drastic changes. Nowadays there appears a real opportunity for Europe as a whole to become united without any states being exceptions, though a number of serious obstacles are to be overcome. For instance, the political atmosphere, and therefore economical situation, can become heated if only  thew former socialist states are allowed to join the European Community and NATO because in that case there is a threatening of a new 'cold war'. But I hope that political leaders will take into consideration the errors of their predecessors and will have enough common sense not to follow this way.
Another important aspect that from my point of view can be regarded as one of the main reasons for European intergration is, if I may put it like that, a primordial divide between old Europe with a many-centuried civilization based on steady cultural traditions and America with its original, absolutely new and eclectic culture, on the one hand, and between Europe and oriental, the so called countries of the III-rd World with different human psychology and religious establishments.
Apart from what has been said above, it is a rigid competition between national economies that matters. In the middle and in the second half of the century the United States of America were an indisputable leader in the world market of scientific technology; at present it is Japan that puts in a claim for the first role in the world economy. At the same time Europe, who just a century ago was a political, economical and scientific centre of the world, now has gone to the background. Certainly, sensible and humane citizens hope that the next century that, by the way, enters the 3-d millennium will be the epoque  of peace and world cooperation aimed at better solvation of numerous problems of humanity. Nobody can foresee and tell us precisely what will actualy happen in future. But more and more analysts, ontstanding sociologists point out the real possibility of a violent confrontation between Western World and united oriental states, the possibility of a nuclear weapon conflict. This awful perspective, though, may be kept in the subconciousness of people, stimulates consolidation of European countries as well.
Approaching the conclusion I would like to return to the very first statement made in connection with the Roman Empire. In comparison with the latter  as  based on a strong hierarchy of territories and nations and runned by an absolute monarch the European Community is supposed to be and makes the first steps towards being a union of nations equal in their rights and responsibilities, governed by the Parliament in which members representing different parts of the Union have equal suffrage. Obviously, such political structure reminds us of a political system of  the USA and of any other democratic federation or confederation. However, to my mind the main difference between future European Community and the USA, for example, lies in the sphere of cultural traditions. I should say that the phenomenon of USA consists in the fact that customs and modes of living of a different origin have been mixed up and as the result of that synthesis of English, Spanish, Irish, French, German, or whatever, national cultures we have got a new, an absolutely different one. With regard to European nations each of which possessing its own background: its own history, filled with significant events, peculiar philosophical, literal and fine arts' traditions and unique national character, I can not imagine these unlike nations that inhabit the European continent to assimilate with each other completely and to form one indivisible nation with a new cultural orientation having forgotten their origin and famous outstanding ancestors.
To conclude what has already been discussed I would like to underline the following idea ( though it can be argued): the actual loss of sovereignty, political sovereignty, at the end of the XXth century is caused by particular fundamental objective reasons. But despite the loss of independence of the European States the birth of a new nation, European nation, seems to be hardly possible, at least in the nearest future.
