<ICLE-RU-MOS-0011.3>

It is difficult for me to agree or to deny such a statement. I think if people would never be punished, undoubtedly crime would increase. There are two aspects of this problem: how to prevent the committing a crime and if it've already committed then how to react.
As far as first point is concerned, the attention of society should be drawn to the bringing-up of children, especially from the broken houces or poor families.
Trying to understand the reasons for committing the crime, we come closer to such aspects of the life of society as morality, economic stability, freedom, ability to live (or sometimes to survive).
Then I think the offenders should be done one more chance to be helpful for society. In this connection one on the "pluses" of the system of punishment in Britain, for example, is the fact that children under 10 cannot be charged with a criminal offence. There also exist one more aspect of the process of punishment offenders between 10 and 17 are treed by special juvenile courts. More often then not such children need special attitude, psychological help. Many young people turn to crime because they are bored and frustrated. The crimes, committed by offenders, have its source in some psychological problems: their parents could be vident persous or such children could feel some shortage of love, care. To say the least, many children become delinquents because they are negtected by their pareuts. So they grous up being aggressive, dangerous sometimes.
Now statistics show that young people are committing more crimes, particularly of theft and violence. And education has an important part to play in battle against juvenile delinquency.
Another aspect of this problem is the continuing debate about crime and punishment. For more clear, precise understanding of the problem it would be helpful to turn to British law institution.
Policemen - and women - are to be seen in towns and cities keeping law and order, either walking in the streets or driving in cars. But the police in Britain are organised very differently from many other countries Most countries, for examle, have a national police force which is controlled by central Government. Britain has no national police force, although police is governed by the central Government's Home Office. Instead, there is a separate police force for each of 52 areas into which the country is divided. Each has a police authority - a committee of local county councillors and magistrates.
The forces co-operate with each other, but it is usual for members of one force to operate in another's area unless they are asked to give assistance. This sometimes happens when there has been very serious crime.
In most countries the police carry guns. The British police generally do not carry firearms, excopt in Northern Ireland. Only a few police are regulary armed-for instance, those who patrol acrports. In certain circumstances specially trained police officers can be armed, but only with the signed permission of a magistrate. And it is really a very important point - when to use gun. I think now there are exact, strict rules in this sphere.
Then all members of the police must have gained a certain level of academic qualifications (!) at school and undergone a period of intensive training. It is very important because policemen should be ready to do unexpected things spontaneously; he should be as a sharp as needle, quick-thinking and well-prepared for all kinds of actions. The police are helped by a number of special. Constables - members of the public who work for the police voluntarily for a few hours a week.
Each police force has itsown Criminal Investigation Department (CID). Members of CID are detectives.
The duties of the police are varied, ranging from assisting at accidents to safeguarding public order and dealing with lost property. One of the main functions is, of course, apprehending criminals and would-be criminals.
The process of criminal justice begins when the police arrest a suspect. Then they decide whether they have enough evidence to prosecute - to send the suspect for trial. In serious cases this decision is made by the Director of Public Prosecutions, who a senior law official.
The most common sentences are fines, prison and probation (The most common punishment for crimes - 80 per cent of the total - is a fine > very civilised, isn't it?) Probation is used often with more minor offences. A person on probation must report to a local police station at regular intervals, which restucts his or her movement ( one of the aspects of rehabilitating).
Magistrates and judges may also pass suspended sentences, in which case the prison will not serve the sentence unless he or she commits another crime, when it will be implemented without more ado. A sentence of community service means that the convicted person has to spend several hours a week doing useful work in his locality.
The death penalty technically still exists in Britain for some abscure offences, such as treason, but is no longer used. The punishment for murder is the life sentence ( I think it is the only right way to punish in such cases). This can be much less than a lifetime in prison, depending on factors such as good behaviour ( it is in some sence again an example of rehabilitating). People who have been convicted can appeal if their lawyer can either show that the trial was wrongly conducted or produce new evidence. Appeal can also be made against the severity of a sentence.
One of the most important problems is that of the finishing a prison sentence. The society should make a person who 'done his time' able to live a healthy, useful, or active life again by training. And I think the social services do their best to rehabilitate criminals once they've left prison.
