<ICLE-RU-MOS-0001.2>

At the different stages of social development there were different systems of punishment. Death and injury, confinement and exile, deprivation of property rights and heavy shameful measures. But these methods failed to create a protection from criminality.
The question of punishment is very serious. Some people believe that treatment  that is given to criminals is too soft. And frequently this is the general public reaction. I think that only a small number of people believe that prison system is outdated and no civilised society should punish its criminals, but rehabilitate them. May be they consider criminals as people, who are not quiet normal. If we are very sympathetic with people, who have physical disabilities, we are insufficiently concerned with those who have intellectual and emotional short-minds.
To my mind punishment is necessary, because if people were never punished, undoubtedly the number of crimes would increase. Punishment is penalty for committed crime. Punishment achieves the rehabilitation, correction of criminal  by imposing imprisonment, payment of a fine, etc. If a man knows that penalty is inevitable, he never commits a crime. So one of the main aims of punishment is the aim of prevention of a new crime, made by a convicted person and crimes, committed by others.
The court takes into consideration extenuating circumstances. Extensive medical and psychiatric reports and  a social report should be made. If person is quite normal, has no previous conviction and is not dangerous to the society, the court may put a person on probation. (It is possible only with criminals, who committed less dangerous crimes). I don't mean too soft sentences on persons, who are dangerous to the society and should be isolated from the society.
I have one case taken from the interview with the English magister as an example. There was one forgery case, rather pathetic, in which it was difficult to decide what to do. A woman went to the post-office, signed somebody else's name, got the money and was convicted. But she was a woman of several children and very considerable domestic problems. She was already seriously in debt. She couldn't possibly pay a fine if they sent her to prison, she would leave her children alone. And within her limits she was a good mother. She was not dangerous to the society and they decided to put her on probation. This magister said that sometimes he felt desperate, when he realised that absolutely nothing could be done for the person. He tried to help a person, but on the other hand he always had to consider the effect on society. If  the person is free, it might cause other people's damage.
There are different patterns behind crimes. Sometimes there is a pattern of drinking, involved in the crime. For example, they leave the pub, they go out, they see a house, which is in darkness and decide to rob it; it could bear the money for tomorrow.
But there are social reasons besides, such as  inflation and unemployment. If a state cannot control, regulate the crimes with no patterns behind them, it should try to ensure political and social stability, to avoid crimes, based on  social patterns.
So I don't believe that prison system is outdated. A state should punish and rehabilitate its criminals.
In my composition I don't touch upon the question of death penalty, because it is  a complicated one. I agree that punishment is necessary to people, who should be isolated from society, because they are dangerous.
