<ICLE-RU-MOS-0008.4>

"Money is the root of all evil". These words can be true especially with reference to the modern world. Too much has become dependent on money today, too often people talk about it and too much efforts are made to have it.
It is sad but true that in the human world money has always played quite a role and one shouldn't be of a keen perception to find numerous examples of it either in history or in literature. How many wars, murders, betrays, misalliances and whatsoever were made for money? A child killed his parent, a mother sold her child, a brother fought against his brother and all was done for money. Money and power - two forces of evil that go hand in hand and reign in our world, breeding strife and sorrows, making people shed their blood and tears.
Unfortunately in our century of science technology and industrialisation money still serves as a means for succeeding in all kinds of dirty business. Narcomafia is using money for planting and selling drug stuff which has already killed thousands of people, many of them were little children and teenagers. In the countries of Minor Asia prostitution is flourishing and the money that is made here flows to Mafia's hands which extends its dirty business all over the world. Wars are started, crimes are committed, people don't think about the consequences of their wrong doings, they are obsessed by the money craving and it seems as if a gold rush has never ended. Having looked at all this fuss about getting a fortune one might have exclaimed: "People have sold their hearts and souls for money!"
But I don't want to sound so pessimistic. Since the human world is established in such a way that we can't exclude money from our life I'd like to quote the words from the old proverb saying that "Money spent on the brain, is never spent in vain", and I think it is true. We can find lots of examples when money spent with good intentions helped people to cope with difficulties and solve their problems. For instance today much money is allotted to scientific research in the field of medicine and thanks to it many people got rid of their sufferings. Another positive fact of our life connected with money is that some of the rich people donate their fortune to charity helping the poor and the needy. Money is also being spent on building new schools, universities, theatres, art galleries, etc. I think it shows that everything may have both positive and negative sides: on the one hand money is the root of evil, on the other hand it is a means for doing good and the outcome always depends on what kind of person is in  possession of money and what are his intentions.
