<ICLE-RU-MOS-0014.1>

To my mind there are a lot of advantages and disadvantages in the prison system. The system is urgent for society so evil must be punished. Impunity creates a higher criminality level. For as Voltaire said "A little evil is often necessary for obtaining a great good". A criminal should regard his imprisonment as a punishment and know that the punishment is inevitable. Imprisonment may be a means of deterrence for some people, which under the threat of punishment will refuse to commit a crime. A prison should educate prisoners and give them a chance to think of their behaviour. May be it is too cruel to deprive somebody of freedom but unfortunately it's necessary nowadays because of very high criminality level in many countries. In the first place we should protect honest citizens, which shouldn't suffer from criminals. As the whole I'm for the prison system but sometimes after imprisonment a man became worse than he was before. And here I'm against it. We know a lot of such cases. The first reason of it is that often inveterate law-breakers and people, which broke a law firstly or even accidentally serve their sentences together in the same place. I'm sure that prisons should be different: for example, prisons for hardened criminals (so-called thief in law), ones for criminals having committed grave crimes, ones for criminals having committed light crimes, ones for teenagers, women and so on. Even it's may be enough sometimes to sentence a criminal to pay a fine. As for criminals which commit crimes more than, for example, three times, their punishment should be doubled. Besides they should be kept in spesial conditions. The conditions should be very severe. As for criminals committing light crimes they should be kept not very  far from their home place that their families could visit them. Special attention should be paid to teenagers. The question of teenagers' criminality is extremely complex. Many countries faced the problem. The matter is that sometimes it's difficult to make them answer in proper time. Many of them feel impunity and commit greater crimes, but nevertheless they are teenagers. They need a special individual approach. To return them to a normal life needs the work of psychologists. Besides they haven't any profession and when they release they can't find a job. In a prison teenagers should be educated and prepared for a new life. As for prisons for women it's so grave problem that I can't discuss it. In general the prison system is a very important institution, will be necessary for a long time. But it must be ridded of its disadvantages and take into account local conditions. Then it will meet demands of the time and serve our society perfectly.
