<ICLE-RU-MOS-0003.4>

Thou shall not kill Arthur Hugh Clough The Latest Decalogue The society must protect people from cruelty, all of them, including criminals. And we must remember the words from the Bible: "... He that is without sin among you, let hum first cast a stone at her".
But, as everybody knows, the prison system is the severe condensation of cruelty, evil and injustice on the one hand, and  on the other -  it is a rare case that the punishment fits the crime. The thing is that  savagery can produce only  savagery and nothing else, and neither shame nor physical pain has any other effect than a hardening one.
While being in jail a prisoner must not be humiliated but rehabilitated.
The society must prevent not only itself from a criminal, but also prevent a criminal from further mistakes. Imprisonment is not a vengeance, it's a reforming. The society has to give a helping hand to someone who stumbled. and there's no difference between a criminal who is killing and one who is making decisions to send others to kill. It is exactly the same thing, or even worse, as far as capital punishment is concerned. Fifteen years in prison can have a sobering effect on even the hardest criminal. As it is said in the Bible: "Let him that stole steal no more: but rather let him labour working with his hands the thing which is good, that he may have to give to him that needeth". The  punishment of the spiritual mode is usually much more indecent and dangerous than a corporal punishment. Because the pain has the quality "if prolonged it cannot be severe, and if severe it cannot be prolonged".
One must not forget that it may happen that he will take place of the man on the dock. One always has an air of someone who is lying when  speaking to a policeman. As Cardinal Richelieu said: "If you give me six lines written by the most honest man, I will find something in them to hang him". All of us have done those things we ought not to have done, but let us not  leave undone those things which we ought to have done. We should better find out and heal the roots of crime. Harshness is setting in many schools. The number of your criminals is growing. In the view of some psychiatrists juveniles are apt to commit the most senseless crimes for reasons adults find outrageous. The minds of young people are overwhelmed with movies where violence dominates. And people live in fear of crime. The law alone won't stop crime but it is an important step in the right direction. As a British politician Edmund Burke said:" There is, however, a limit at which  forbearance ceases to be a virtue."
The problem of cruelty and crime is of vital importance especially for Russia as it takes the first place in the world prison league. The second belongs to the United states.
					* * * "A cruel story runs on wheels, and every hand oils the wheels as they run" 		Ouida. A British novelist.
