<ICLE-RU-MOS-0006.3>

I agree with this statement but I would like to present a few points proving the opposite. I will present them one by one in order of importance .
In this country we have a system of military service and most people believe that military service turns or transforms a boy into a man. When somebody swears to be faithful to his native country, he swears to be faithful to his family and his social class too . This oath makes people more confident and faithful. If we reject the military service we reject this oath too. Therefore we have to replace it , but I do not know what with. So, this is the first point, a matter of soul , I would say .
Now I would like to present another point of view on the matter . Any professional army should have its professional military . What is a professional in any sphere of life ? This is a person , who is really interested in what he or she is doing , and is capable of doing this work perfectly well . If he likes to read ' clever ' and foggy books on philosophy which make an average person go crazy and his students mad because of the dullness and dryness of his seminars - he may be a "professional " in philology . A professional in the army is another matter . As we put it " he is a servant of the tsar and a farther of soldiers " . He must run as a runner , shoot as a shooter and be as caring as a mother . . I made a very pleasant picture , didn't I ? Any professional wants to have a worthy salary and a professional army in general costs much more than an ordinary army on the system of military service . If the state has enough money to keep a professional army, this is wonderful. But if this state is in debt, than a professional army is out of the question . Small salaries are lethal for any army .
And now I would like to present the last and most important point , that should be considered very thoroughly . Now , what is the army ? By definition the army is a group of armed people, that serves to protect its country. The army exists for war only . Soldiers and officers must have an enemy in mind . The orders are not discussed, they are executed . But every soldier has his own brains and inevitably he puts them to work. What is the guilt of Serbs and Croats in former Yugoslavia ? Why are they killing each other ? Russian and American soldiers have the same ideas, I believe . Why should they fight against Serbs and Croats or Moslems ? Why should they be hostages of big politics ? A whole list of questions and no answers . Why not to leave Serbs, Croats and Moslems in their destroyed country ? What goals do we achieve by sending our troops there ?
Do you want the army to be professional ? A set of questions and everyone chooses the answer for oneself .
