<ICLE-RU-MOS-0010.4>

"Money, money, money always sunny is the rich men's world..."
What is money?
Let us turn our view to the dictionary. Money are coins stamped from metal, printed note, given and accepted when you buy or sell something. Somebody has much money  and somebody is absolutely broke.
Why do people think that money usually spoils mankind?  Look around!
Let's take for an example our country. The appearance of "new Russians" has given a terrible imprint on common people, who lead a quiet life, earn their living at establishments and have both ends met.
Visit different kinds of shops and supermarkets and you will be shocked by variety of very expensive goods there. And only rich people can afford it. You can see the eyes of the children, who want to have such beautiful toys, which are too expensive for their parents.
You pass by the restaurants and think: "My God, how expensive it's to eat in these restaurants, night clubs and get pleasure there.
Money spoils either those who have much  or those who are in need of it.
Money, money, money.
Money governs our thoughts, minds, turns our steps to make rash actions.
Money kills people. You remember the death of Vlad Listiev and there was much gossip around his death. And some people thought that his death was connected with money. Human life, which is considered to be God's gift, also depends on money.
Many girls who want to have beautiful dresses, jewellery are looking for a rich man not paying attention to human being feelings. Some of them become prostitutes. It boggles. Nowadays money is an awful monster. In order to get much money people betray each other. Mass media tells us that much more hired killers show up today. And for $ 10 000 they do their job perfectly.
Pay your attention to the children. They give up studying at school to earn money; they wash cars, sell newspapers or sometimes they are just poor beggars. Their parents can't afford to buy them even a bar of chocolate.
In conclusion, I'd like to speak about conflicts, which appear because of the money. The lack of money, I think sometimes influences relations in the family, but it's just a small part of all troubles, which the person meets on his way. Many crimes are not revealed, because rich people can buy out the freedom for killers.
People who have much money have the global power.
Wars and political conflicts happen because of money. Some people want to rule the whole world. Of course, you know the war in Chechnya. Nobody in the Russian government can solve this problem in Chechnya and find a peaceful solution.
Terrorism is growing, nobody cares about it, nobody can help. Criminals use this situation just to earn money. They sell guns to terrorists.
When two countries fight with each other, the government of these countries pay for it at the expense of common people. Do you agree with me?
So, to my mind, money is really the root of all evil.
