<ICLE-RU-MOS-0014.3>

There is a general knowledge that 'Money is the root of all evil'. In many cases it's really true, because in all times people paid due respect to those who were rich and noble. I think that the root of all evil is in the man himself ; to my mind, only good is absolute but evil is relative. It is stupid to blame all the world for one's problems, one needs to look more carefully at oneself. People who don't have a lot of money usually think, that if they had it, they'll  not  have problems at all. But I know certainly from my own experience, that money doesn't garantee any happiness at all. Of course, in the modern society money is of great importance, because, if you have it you can decide a lot of  your problems, but not the main ones. One can never buy happiness, health, beauty, peace in soul. A legend exists that money was invented by the devil to tempt the mankind. The aspect of money includes the problem of equality. There were and there are different ideas about making all people equal, because it was considered that this would lead to common happiness. But, to my mind, people can only be equal at the face of God. I don't think that one person is equal to another, because it's impossible to compare one person to another. If you come to a big city, you can easily get an impression that all you need is money and nothing else. There is a lot of advertisement everywhere, and one wants to buy everything. If you enter a big supermarket, you can buy everything you want. But, I think, the life in a big city is completely perverted, because the scale of values is destroyed. But it has nothing to do with money itself, everything depends on mankind, on each person in particular. Of course, money develops the worst qualities of one's character: envy, anger, unhumility. A lot people were killed because of their money, and many lives were broken, because rich people tended to marry their children according to their parents' purposes; and they didn't care about their children's feelings. It's just quite ordinary in the world of business to make profit the main principle of life. Sometimes I have an impression that 'money for money' is the only thing people are interested in. To my mind, the most dangerous situation is to receive money occasionally and suddenly, when one, for example, had been living in quite  modest conditions during all his life, and then suddenly he received an inheritance; he would certainly have some cherished wishes to realize, but I'm sure, that after that he would be unable to imagine where to put his money in , what to do with it. It's not by chance, that in rich families children are brought up in very strict traditions, because money is not only a source of pleasure, but also a great danger. Our so-called 'new russians' also were ordinary people during the most part of their lives, and now they have a great amount of money and they don't know what to do with it. And there is also a problem of 'easy money', it's a general truth, that, unfortunately, in our country a lot of people have a lot of money without putting any physical or mental effort to earn it. So these people waste their money quite easily because it has come to them so easily. I'm quite sure, that money must be given only to those who deserve it, because a person must  value it. I think, that every person has that feeling of 'easy money', when one, for example, wins in a lottery or gains it by some other means, he spends it quickly and without thinking, and after this he somehow 'regains the consciousness' and he asks himself why he bought all these unimportant and unuseful things.  Some modern psychologists consider that to go shopping is kind of  mental disease in our country for some classes of society. There are undoubtful facts, that if a person lives in poverty, he' ll certainly buy a lot of products, even when he doesn't need them at all, because there will be always a fear of hunger in his heart. So our businessmen and their wives tend to buy everything they see in the shop, because they're  afraid that the time will come when they won't have money or the ability to buy things. Big money is extremely dangerous for a young person, because in most cases his moral values have not yet formed completely, and money has a magic power to destroy a moral make-up of a person. A young person begins to appreciate people not by their deeds, but by the amount of money they have. To my mind, a rich person must be a person of  high morality and culture, otherwise he will turn into a beast. Just it's necessary to think over this problem and to understand, that if god makes you a rich person, He gives you a possibility to learn how to treat money. It 's not a secret, that the most part of people want to have a lot of money for themselves or for their families; but if a person is not  concerned only about his own problems, but he wants to help other people, we'll help such persons as our famous Russian patrons of arts - Tretiyakov, Morozov and many others did. They understood, that money was only a tool in this world to higher purposes. Of course, in our time charity is spread widely, but in many cases businessmen help to culture or the church because they want to show how good they are, but  not to help to those who really need their help. In my opinion,  if you want to help somebody with money, you'll better give it without announcing your name and without waiting for some reward from this person. In the Bible Jesus said:" Be careful not to do your good works before people in order to be seen by them. If you do, your Father in heaven will not reward you. So when you give to the poor, do not announce it with a trumpet as hypocrites do in sinagogs and on the streets in order to be praised by people". According to religion money unite us to the Earth, which is only a temporary refuge for our souls; people shouldn't concentrate on earthly things, because it won't let them  develop spiritually :" Do not continue to store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy and thieves break in and steal. But continue to store up for yourselves in heaven..." Really, we can't take a penny with us when we die, so if a person is so connected with his money on the earth, he will be totally destroyed by the fact that he'll certainly die. In this case the only eterhal treasure we have is knowledge of life.
