<ICLE-RU-MOS-0004.3>

It is a truth universally acknowledged that there is no practice without theory : one must really have some knowledge so as to apply it to whatever he does . The problem which was chosen as a topic for the present essay has been discussed time and again both by teachers and by students, and for the time being it is one of the most essential points at issue . Nowadays, when the problem of education in Russia has become common , we more and more ask ourselves : are we able , after graduating from our universities, to begin to work and earn our living ? Are we really prepared for the real world ? And how important is it and what does it depend on ?
Although today we often say that there is a lack of practice in our studies, we should not underestimate the importance of theory, because unless we know how to thread a needle , we cannot really begin doing it . But here a very important question is bound to arise : how much theory and how much practice must one really have during his years of study and which of them is more important ? If we talk about the profession of teacher of English, for instance , we can admit that six months of practice would be enough for us to begin to work after we graduate . Having tried to work as a teacher for some period of time , we would probably understand that there is hardly any great difficulty that we would not be able to cope with . But if we talk about the profession of a surgeon , who takes upon himself the responsibility for other people's lives , the question of practice acquires special importance .
Here it is practice that comes to the fore . Every doctor - a physician, a dentist, an oculist or whoever it may be, must go through a very long practice to be sure that he is able to help people, to make them healthy and not vice versa . A very big problem in this country now is that there a lot of doctors who think they know their trade, but in practice they turn out to be unschooled, to say the least of it . Unfortunately there are plenty of examples which can serve as a demonstration of it . And the fact that the amount of such good-for-nothing doctors is increasing is still more depressing . Now, when we have to face the fact of paid medical service , this problem becomes extremely acute .
It would be unfair to say that it is only doctors who are unschooled . There are plenty of teachers , journalists, artists, interpreters and others whose knowledge of their business leaves much to be desired . And in most cases, unfortunately, it is the result of bad schooling and lack of practice at the universities they were studying at . A few decades ago , as our grandparents say , the system of university education was much better and university graduates at that time were more prepared for the real world than those of the present day.
I am not , to say the least , an expert , of course , there are others who seem to know a great deal more about the subject than I do. But I would like to raise a few questions : how much depends on the educational system and how much depends on the students' attitude towards their future profession ? Incredibly enough , but today we can meet people who do not want " to be prepared for the real world " although very often they have every opportunity to do so . And as the result their university degrees are of very little value .
Still I do not agree that most university degrees are theoretical, though there are demonstrations of the opposite. I think we certainly should do our best to improve our educational system . But still very much depends on the person's attitude towards the ' real world ' and the desire to be helpful and professional .
