<ICLE-RU-MOS-0004.4>

There were different epochs in the history of the humanity, but the 20th century is surely the age of cruelty and crime. In the minds of people it is associated with so many bizarre and extraordinary crimes. The list of world's famous criminals is enormous. Hitler and Stalin are really well - known people. Others are less "popular", but there are still thousands of them. Nowadays the situation seems to be totally out of control. We should pay special attention to the fact that many crimes now involve very young people, the latest statistics shows that the number of children arrested for murder has more than doubled in the last ten years. In our country we don't receive much information on that subject, but when I was abroad I was really surprised by the overwhelming amount of articles in newspapers about parricides, fatercides, and all kinds of "-cides". It seems to me, that the world has never seen anything like this before. Perhaps, the motto of a modern human being is a quotation from the Oliver Stone movie.
"Natural Born Killers": Let's kill until we are killed." By the way, Hollywood's productions and popular fiction influence the minds of people.
But let us leave Hollywood alone with its movies. The fact that  crime is growing increasingly provides the new strictness, as there are always two sides to every story. And that means nothing but a new ware of violence. So many people were sentenced to death, cruel and unusual punishments were used here and there. The argument for  that is that nobody can expect perfect justice so it is reasonable to adopt the imperfect unjust solution: this happens because too many people for too many years have lived in fear of crime.  And another common belief is that law alone won't stop crime and violence. People live in permanent horror as everyone now has a realistic chance of being murdered. Every life is at risk, so to speak. And this makes people really cruel. So from everything that was said above, we can conclude that we all are the children and the victims of our age of cruelty and crime. And it is obvious that we have to find some "exit", the way to solve our problems. And what we really need in this case is kindness and tolerance. We all know perfectly well that the evil you do will return to you sooner or later, in this or that form. We also know; that we should do unto people the way we want them do unto us. So why not follow this rule.
Can't people think for a moment, that we had already all kinds of severe laws and horrible prisons for so many centuries. And if all that was of any help, then we would have lived in the society without any crimes at all. But it is far from being true. Probably, one would say that it was a "mild medicine" for the criminals. But what else can we do to them. I suppose, all that proves, that we must find some new ways of "healing" the humanity. This system of sending people to prison  is really outdated. By using it we simply continue to create "monsters". Prison can never make a person  (a criminal) better. Don't believe in that fairy tale. Staying there people lose hope, they suffer. "The Ballad of Reading Goal" by Oscar Wilde can be a perfect illustration to this point. Now I'll adduce several lines from it For example: Something was dead in each of us, And what was dead was Hope.
		or I never saw a man who looked With such a wistful eye Upon that little tent of blue which prisoners call the sky, And at every drifting cloud that went With sails of silver by.
			or I know not whether laws be right, Or whether Laws be wrong: All that we know who lie in gaol Is that the wall is strong; And that each day is like a year, A year whose days are long.
I understand that these lines may seem nothing else but a romantic poem. But there is much truth in them. Our aim ( I mean the aim of the society) is to rehabilitate criminals and not to make them suffer or humiliate them. One of the famous writers said ( unfortunately, I don't remember who it was) that punishment is as humiliating for him who gives it as for him who receives it; and it is ineffective, besides.
What we have to do is to make these people able to live normal "useful" lives. And as far as prisons together with the fear of capital punishment are concerned, it is not the best way to do it.
Besides, it is very useful to all of us to pay special attention to what is said in the Bible. We all are far from being innocent and pure. And nobody gave us the right to be judges, unless we can say that we are saints.
So my advice (If I can give any advice) is to forget about prisons super prisons, military-style boot camps, chain gangs, because even the worst people don't deserve staying at those "houses of pain". What we really need to do is to work out some absolutely new system of "punishment" (I wouldn't even call it punishment), find other ways to stop violence and  save the world.
