<ICLE-RU-MOS-0029.4>

We have to face the fact that the problem of woman's place in modern society is one of the most serious today.
The question which is bound to arise here is whether nesting at home or launching a career is the most challenging option for a modern woman. It is the women's movement (feminism) that struggles for recognition of the claims of women for rights equal to those possessed by men. Feminists achieved great success in the last century. The founding aims of the women's movement - equal job opportunities, reproductive choice, equal pay and freedom from sexual abuse are now supported by many women who might not identify themselves as feminists.
On the other hand, many people claim  that feminists have done more harm to the cause of women than good and women's movement has proved to be women's worst enemy. Women are told they are unhappy, because feminism has gone too far, giving them more independence than they can handle and wrecking their relationships with men. Behind the celebration of women's victory, behind the news, that  the struggle for women's rights is won, another message flashes.
A woman may be free and equal, nevertheless  she may be miserable.
It is pointed out by many critics of feminism that women are unhappy precisely because they are free. Women are enslaved by their own liberation. They have gained control over their fertility, only to lose it. They have pursued their own professional dreams and lost out the greatest female dream - the dream about a family.
Women's liberation has given the new generation high incomes, the option of single parenthood, free love in return it has effectively robbed them of one  thing upon which the happiness of most women rests - men.
One can hardly deny all these facts but my point of view on this matter is entirely different I believe that many women are unhappy not because feminism has failed; the true cause of their misery is that feminism hasn't gone far enough.
In the 80s Mrs Thatcher stated categorically: " Women's fight for equality has largely been won. Women can enrol in any university, join any firm, apply for credit at any bank " Men and women are equal. This reminds me of the famous statement made by George Orwell: " All men are equal: but some are more equal than others".
First of all let's consider the job opportunities. In the UK there are still only  44 women members of Parliament out of 650 MPs. In the USA There are only 2 female governors the same number as in the 30S.
Next comes equal pay. An average working woman, in both the UK and the US, still earns only just over two-thirds of what men do for the same work. Nor do women enjoy equality in their own homes, where they still shoulder 70 percent of the household duties. A woman is supposed to do all domestic chores: to cook meals and wash dishes, to do the laundry, to vacuum the rooms and do the shopping. Men think that housework is a garbage work. Men feel offended when they are offered to shore the housework: they believe that it is degrading and humiliating for people of their intelligence.
Moral standards for men and women are far from being equal. If a woman is not married, she is supposed to live a good clean virginal life. She is not supposed to have lovers, to have affairs, although for a man it is quite natural. Men don't admit that sexually women are very much like them.
