<ICLE-RU-MOS-0007.2>

I asked my mother: 'If I were a boy, would you allow me to become a soldier?' My mother answered: 'I think it would be your own choice whether to make a military career or not'. I asked again: 'And  what about military service?' She said: 'I would do my best to protect you from the army'. I think it just illustrates the situation in our country. In Russia all mothers are not satisfied with the military system because this system offers  danger to their sons. What are the reasons for this?
Our army consists of non-professionals. It is impossible to secure a real defence in large countries because of their dimensions. Numbers of people who devoted themselves to army life is not enough for proper defence of our frontiers. Consequently an army can not consist only of the professional soldiers, it needs fresh regularly renewed powers. There is certainly a great value in a system of military service. But the whole military institution should be revised.
A friend of mine suggested a variant. One must destroy the army-service system. It may help to avoid  fear before the army. A new army system will be created from the very beginning, there is no sense just to redo it. We will have new laws, new rights. But what will be with the professional military people? We can not leave out altogether. Their life and career are connected with the old army and they are real professionals of their business.
There is a dilemma, a very argumentative question.
Let us discuss another aspect of this problem. Acknowledging a necessity of army-service for every male person we come across the situation of involuntary taking into war, making people to be at war by force. If a country takes part in some military actions ( I don't mean the defence of Motherland), it uses its military forces. In our case the boys who serve in the army according to the law can find themselves at war involuntarily. More than that they can be subjected to the risk of being killed. This is unfair. I think every state should have a system of military service ( for protecting borders, for example), and a system of military volunteers ( who could be participants of any military actions out of the native country territory). They are professional soldiers and have special salary for their service. When they reach the statuary ages they retire, have privileges.
The conclusion is I don't agree with the composition's title. There must exist two types of military organisations: both the army-service system and the voluntary military system. Maybe it is an Utopia but nevertheless it is my own understanding of the problem.
