<ICLE-RU-MOS-0002.3>

One of the most urgent global problems , which is every country's concern, is the ecological problem. The relationship between nature and mankind varied in different epochs, but it was always one of the essential characteristics of every stage in the development of human society. Certainly, there always have been individual attitudes towards nature , but there have also been general tendencies.
The first attempt of man to realise his place in the world and in the creation of the world around him is reflected in mythology. People badly needed at least to create myths to explain nature and its laws, if not to explore it. Take, for instance, the story of how Prometheus stole fire from the gods and gave it to men. Men have assumed the god-like power over nature and they are able to destroy the world as the result of it.
The ancient Greeks and Romans lived near nature and saw the Earth as a living organism. They spoke of the Earth as a divine being who rewarded those who protected her and punished those who did not. But we must not be too sentimental about the past - the Greeks and the Romans had cut down too many trees and overgrazed the land. Other great empires of the Antiquity crumbled into deserts they themselves created as they destroyed the vast forests of Africa and Central Asia. North Africa, once the granary of Europe, became the Sahara desert.
As the population of the Earth increased, its impact on the environment became greater. The man , like an ungrateful child, left the lap of Nature, once his loving Mother, and gradually destroyed it by using his power without thinking about the consequences. Different philosophers tried to justify the experimental, technical , pragmatic approach to nature. Some people saw the origins of men's ruthless exploitation of nature as inspired by the Old Testament. In Genesis God says to Adam : " Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it ; and have dominion over the fish of the sea , and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth..." This must be one of the few commandments that man has obeyed too energetically. Perhaps it would have been better for the mankind , if people had obeyed other commandments so ardently.
But man took advantage of his being the " master " of nature. He falsely interpreted his " dominion " over natural beings, and exploited natural resources to satisfy his needs most unthoughtfully and even cruelly. And much harm has he done to nature and to himself by such treatment ! In fact, Genesis is not a license for men to do as they please with the Earth. All things on Earth depend upon each other , and men should live in harmony with nature.
Up to the 19th century, the time when Victor Hugo lived, people had been exploiting nature. They seemed to feel that they knew all natural laws, that they have fathomed the depths and secrets of nature. But this knowledge was only the mental ability of men to understand ,gradually, due to the development of natural sciences, what nature was. This does not mean to say that men merged with nature or at least moved closer to it . On the contrary , the soul of man was far from nature. He had to pay this price for all the commodities that civilisation had brought to him. Because of the city-growth and the development of new technologies nature became a mere resource for man's living. He has lost the ancient sense of kinship with nature, which was instinctive to him.
The beginning of the 19th century is best known as the age of Romanticism. Romanticists were in general sensitive to nature. One of the main romantic writers in Germany at the beginning of the 19th century, Novalis, devoted one of his stories ("Disciples in Sais") to the problems of nature. It is a discussion about nature and industry , and about human history. The characters discuss two different ways of learning the laws of nature : the experimental, technical approach and the method of intuition. The empirical science , which originates in Lord Bacon's works, cultivates the methods of material civilisation. Lord Bacon's followers consider nature to be a wild being , which must be "tamed" by man. Material progress is regarded as the most important thing for people . On the contrary, the ancient ways of cognition were mystical and mythological, and the supporters of the intuitive approach try to revive them. The author himself is not obviously an ardent supporter of civilisation and progress. There is a covenant between all natural human beings, and men should preserve it. Victor Hugo was also a romanticist , but of a later period, and he lived in another country - in France. But he was also extremely sensitive to the harm that was being done to nature . It pierces his heart to think that "nature is calling out but humanity refuses to pay heed".
. We see that the problem of man's relationship with nature is eternal, there is nothing new about it. What's new is the awesome power that modern science and technology has put into man's hands.We can move mountains and erase whole forests in the twinkling of an eye. But nothing can put them back as they were.
Everything that has so far been said presents a rather pessimistic picture. It can produce the impression of the irreparability of the damage . However there is a positive view of the problem which dominates in the world community. It is based on the concept that nothing can be returned to its primeval state, but a balance can be achieved between civilisation and nature, and a compromise should be found.
This is not a mere concoction of philosophers, politicians and ecologists, but the first steps have been taken in that direction. Different programmes have been put to practice in civilised countries to restore and purify the natural resources. For instance, the purification of Great Lakes in the USA, the development of filter technologies, etc. There is a tendency to use the achievements of sciences to minimise the devastating impact we've made on the world. We've become aware that this impact has reached the point of crisis because of our huge advances in technology in the last few decades. The interest aroused by these issues is increasing daily. We see that humanity has started " to pay heed " to the call-out of nature and that the first steps have been taken to improve the harm that has been done to it.
