<ICLE-RU-MOS-0006.2>

The Russians don't know this point well. It is very far from our minds. I don't say that the criminal problem is not important, but it is very special in Russia. The main points of it are organised criminality and prevention of crime. But prisons... Who cares, what's wrong there now?
As far as western society is concerned, the situation can seem to be dramatised from the Russian point of view. Their criminal levels are not lower, than ours. But nowadays they take care of preventing the crime much more than how to punish the criminals.
Now I want to draw your attention to an article about Swedish prisons published in 'spid-info', N9 1995. Swedish prisons are very comfortable, cells look like hotel rooms, there are TV, bookshelves, toilet and bathroom. Interviewed director of a Swedish prison says that she doesn't thinks this system is dangerous. A possible threat of  a terrorist attack is not the main danger.
The first thing criminals need is rehabilitation. She speaks about motives for different crimes. For instance, the strongest motive for thieves is not to work, and very often there is a pattern of drinking or alcoholism. Alcoholism is an illness, and if somebody is ill, the best decision is to cure him.
But a real problem whether to help a person or to deny him comes, when violent crimes are concerned. Of course, we can send this person to prison. But the best way to prevent a new crime, she believes,  is to put this person on a probation. Very often people who commit violent crimes are really pathetic. They are teenagers who come from single-parent families. Sometimes violent crimes are committed by the drinkers and people, who have serious personal problems or even mental illness. People who spent a few years in a prison also need a rehabilitation. They are out of the society, they can't find a work, other people don't accept them. As a specialist, she thinks, it wouldn't be right. Every society must  run a rehabilitation scheme for the people who were in  prison.
Now I want to draw your attention to another aspect of rehabilitation. Here I want to say a few words about Russian criminality. European problems seem to be very local in comparison to the Russian organised criminality. This kind of crime does  great harm to the society now. It's necessary to say here about the so-called 'apartment's business'. These crimes are usually committed by organised groups of people, often well-educated. They find some miserable old people, single 'babushkas', drinkers, promise to help them, give them some money and then turn them out of their houses.
The schemes of these crimes are usually very complicated. These Mafia groups  always consist of professionals and it's very difficult to charge them with anything.
Another sort of crime is fraud. It becomes more and more popular in commercial sphere. There appeared a new 'star'  in Russian criminality. Russian Mafia is, of course, less impressive than Stalin now but commercial crimes and, especially, business fraud have hit their highest level last year and continue to increase now.
The main question is who should be charged and with what and who should be defended? Victims or criminals?
I think, the society.  Undoubtedly,  the Mafia problem is far from the minds of common people. They believe, that social defence is much more important in the time, when the troubles of the present  with the potentials of the future are found side by side in Russia now. But macro political situation has a strong effect on the microeconomical situation, and they can not exist separately.
