<ICLE-RU-MOS-0008.3>

I believe, the man who first began dreaming was Adam. He 'd dreamt of Eve, and she was given to him. God has created her for him , but in a sense Adam has taken part in this creation. When man had been banished from Eden, the only thing that still distinguished him from other living beings was imagination, this last blessing of Paradise lost.
At first man wasn't conscious of this gift of imagination. The world view of a primitive man was different from that of ours. ' Existing ' has not been opposed to ' imagined '. It was due to lack of imagination about the outer world, and to the fact that the discriminating powers of the human mind were only beginning to develop. Man was perceiving the world as a tangle of interconnected objects, as a globality, the constituent parts of which were profoundly and indissolubly connected.
Then, step by step man became aware of his own existence and of the existence of the world as distinguished from himself. The world became an object of man's contemplation and analysis. Very soon the world began to seem too little and simple for practically unlimited abilities of man's mind. Man couldn't be satisfied with it , and he tried to create a world of its own, where all the images arisen in his mind would find their place. Man knew a horse and he heard strange tales of eastern animals with horns on their noses, and so he created a unicorn. We know very well now about the existence of rhinoceroses , who are not at all unnatural. But we still love to hear old legends about unicorns, because they are something we haven't got in our world, but what man has created by his own power - the power of imagination.
Man really is an image of God, and so he has received an ability of creation.
" Imagination is subcreation ", - wrote a famous English writer of our century J.R.R. Tolkien. It means that man can produce a kind of " secondary reality ", where everything that he has imagined would be real and true.
The more familiar the outer world becomes to a man, the more interesting and important for him this " secondary reality " turns out to be . Nowadays, when there is hardly an inch of the Earth left that hasn't been most thoroughly examined and investigated , when all the existing things have been systematised, given a proper place and labelled, suddenly a deep longing for something irrational, that cannot be investigated and systematised, has arisen. That is one strong impulse for imagination.
Another one is the development of science as such , however paradoxical it may seem. When man had achieved with the help of new science and technology flying through space , the man's imagination immediately began " to  work " , and we can see the results very clearly - a great amount of books and films belonging to the so-called   "science fiction ". This is an excellent proof of what has been said above .
Other examples to illustrate my point are on the one hand horror films and books together with the so-called  " fantasy fiction " ( e. g. books by U. Le Guinn, T.H. White, etc. ), and  " soap operas " on the other hand. These are also products of dreaming and imagination, but of another kind. If the former are produced by " active " , creative imagination, the latter are the results of " passive " or " protective " imagination. These modern cinderella stories are nothing else than dreams of an average housewife tired of her everyday duties and worries. By dreaming and creating her secondary reality , where it is true and real that poor defenceless girls are sure  to meet their princes, handsome, loving and rich, she tries to defend herself from the actual life. She escapes into this secondary reality. That is why I call this kind of imagination passive or protective.
So I believe that in our days imagination and dreaming not only have not vanished , but that their influence on human mind is gradually increasing. Not the lack of imagination could be a danger, but the possibility of the total escape into the secondary reality. It is very important for us not to turn a gift into a trap for ourselves.
