<ICLE-RU-MOS-0006.5>

It is indisputable that a state needs a strong , efficient army , which is well paid and respected by the people. In most countries the military service is rather an honoured and prestigious business . Until quiet recently the service in the army was prestigious enough in our country as well . But during the last ten years the wave of antimilitary movements arose and this negative tendency is not going to abate . Such an unfavourable relationship tawrd the military service turned out of several factors . First of all it is the whole state of affairs in the army which does not rule out the possibility of moral humiliation and physical abuse , the aggravation of health or even the death of the servicemen . As another very important factor we can consider the wars with Afghanistan and Chechnya . And , at last , our system of military service takes up an enormous part of federal budget to the detriment of education , culture and science .
The best way to check fighting efficiency of the army is war .The war with Chechnya showed that huge , badly managed and weakly educated Russian army built on the undivided authority system can not wage a local war effectively . Still more the result of different sociological researches show that more than 70 per cent of servicemen think that their subunits can't carry out a set task .
The bridge - head , raws of beds in the barracks , the severe daily timetable and the orders which are beyond the discussion - these are the attributes of the army in any state . And among all these there is a human being , an individual . And the following questions arise naturally : is it possible to correlate the stable principle of undivided authority in the army with another stable principle - with the priority of the individuals rights ? Is it possible to obey the order without the feeling that you are restricted in your rights ?
The lacks of obligatory military service are obvious . Many people think that the best way out of this situation is a professional army . Actually the fact of existence of professional army means that all servicemen are specially trained and educated , which causes the higher fighting efficiency . Also it means that the army consists only of those people who are fit for such kind of activity and , besides ,like it . (A lot has already been said about those people , whoes lives and been ruined because of the obligatory military service ) .
Nowadays our government is working at the military reform . Let's hope that some changes shall be made in the whole system of military forces ; and people whose persuasions , physical and psychological abilities don't allow them to serve in the army , will not be forced to do it .
