<ICLE-RU-MOS-0014.2>

In my opinion, the place of dreams and imagination in the modern world is that of creator in reference to his creation or that of king in his kingdom. For what is the constant source of human mind's eternal trouble and unrest but imagination? What other power inspires us to search for all sorts of new conveniences and devices to satisfy our exquisite tastes, providing the mind with hundreds of splendid ideas about what else can be done to give pleasure to one's body and soul? Who would refuse the man who dared to accept possibility of electricity a considerable amount of imagination?
One probably wouldn't even think of inventing a steam-engine if the ever-lasting human dream of moving as fast as the wind was not always present in our mind. It is not easy to find an argument against the statement , that the speed of wind can hardly be considered as one of the indispensable necessities of human survival. But, curiously enough, it was always tempting to imagine oneself to be in the place of someone or something else, as the wind or a bird, as the case may be; and, going still further, to calculate the possible consequences of this rather doubtful position as if it were a stated fact or an easily achieved prospect. No doubt, we think, there mast be some way of embodying these wonderful suppositions and enjoying the overwhelming possibilities thus suggested.
At any rate, it seems inevitable to assume that the act of imagining some possibility comes before any mental or spiritual discovery. And this is not the only valuable possession that dreams and imagination provide us with. Speaking about dreams, no one can deny that the attribute 'beautiful' is one of the most frequently attached to the word; and beauty is a notion of a particular interest and importance for the modern world, despite all science technology and industrialisation. In fact, to a less superficial eye, there is no less obvious idea as that of opposition between beauty and usefulness, which was generally recognised by many people not so long ago. For what can be more useful for a modern citizen than beauty? Unfortunately, nothing else seems to be capable of saving him from feeling frustrated and lost in this horizontal world of ours, which we inherited from the romantic XIX-th century, with no heavens above and no hell below. It is especially nowadays that the aesthetic criteria seem to make their way into people's mind and dominate their choice to a great extent. At least, that is what the course of development of advertising production over the last two decades has shown most clearly. Of course, the questions of national survival, such as those of the possibility of nuclear  war, seem to be too serious to be decided on these futile grounds. But who knows what factor was the first to influence public opinion in this respect, for one can hardly imagine an abstract picture of elimination of a nation ( if it is at all possible to imagine that one does not exist), but the horrible picture of devastated land which immediately arises in mind, and gives a thorough idea of anti-beautiful, is more than enough to form one's opinion on this score. To sum up the point, it no longer looks doubtful that dreams and imagination are an indispensable property of modern civilisation; and if it doesn't have a place in the world, it is only for the reason that is always goes a step ahead of all the rest.
