<ICLE-RU-MOS-0023.2>

There is no doubt that evil and good are two sides of human nature. And by all means, everyone has some good and bad features. The most important question here is - 'what dominates?'
For instance, if we take Hitler as an example of an evil man, we'll certainly find some deeds of kindness which he had probably accomplished in his life.
As for me, I would say the only good thing he ever did - was the suicide he commited... But we can talk of his ability to love, for instance, he really cared for Eve Brown.
Thus, my starting point is that we all are human beings and by the very nature we are not ideal. Now, if we return to the quotation used in the title of this essay - 'money is the root of all evil' - we shall find out that there are many things to talk about concerning this subject.
Every now and then people wished to possess, whatever their desires were, they can all be united in a frase: 'I want to have this and that', and there can be no exceptions.
Even when a person says: 'I want to be (beautiful, charming, good, etc.)', it is just another way of putting the same thing. The fact is that he or she just wants to have such and such qualities. Many philosophers talk of kindness and generosity, but they, just like religious people, want to achieve their reward in the after-life. There is no one who wouldn't want to possess something. This feeling, the want of possession, is based on our egoistic nature due to which people survive in the most difficult situations. It we didn't have the  love for ourselves inside us, we wouldn't be able to survive in this world. Thus, egoism is a natural feeling and one shouldn't be ashamed of it. It is the force which pushes us forward...
People who are in love also wish to have. They would be perfectly happy if the person they love could always be beside them.
But everything can be achieved only by paying for it in one way or another. When people introduced money, it became the most convenient way of payment. To say that 'money is the root of all evil' is just a metaphor. People of all times used money to achieve their goals. This is what could be ( and often was) evil. The metal itself can't do any harm. It is just a mediator. Therefore, the meaning was transferred from the thoughts to the means by which those thoughts were turned into deeds.
Thus, man is the root of all evil and good.
