<ICLE-RU-MOS-0019.4>

What makes one nation (or group of men) ready to fight another nation (or another group of men)? Answer: a conflict of interests, or a clash of life-shaping ideas, or one nation's belief that it is in blood and bone superior to the rest. Have those causes disappeared from the face of the earth? Of course they have not. Which form of military service is more effective - this question remains now as crucial as it was fifty or one hundred years ago, in the days of most brutal battles.
At first sight, the answer to this question seems to be quite evident. There are two basic options. The first is compulsory military service. The second is hired troops, i. e. army of professionals. To become an expert in any field takes time. There can be no doubt that a skilled professional soldier who has operated a tank or an armoured carrier for five or ten years will do it much better than a soldier whose service term totals only six months or one year. It follows that the former will have more chances to perform his task successfully and finally to survive on the battlefield and to defeat his enemy.
There is another merit of professional army. It concerns a problem of maintenance of order among the ranks. It is generally known that it is rather difficult to keep discipline exclusively by means of punishment which is the only (unfortunately not so effective) means in the system of compulsory military service. An experience of the army of the United States of America is very significant in this respect. Soon after the system of hired troops had been issued all the problems with discipline were resolved mainly with the aid of a system of fines. That result could not be achieved only by means of summary punishment.
The situation in the Soviet Army was quite different. No methods could force Soviet soldiers to serve properly. Mutual hatred was in the usual run of things. As  a result thousands of soldiers have been murdered by their colleagues every year. Private soldiers were occupied mainly with building of houses or doing up a territory of their military unit. Hence it follows that they could do everything except fighting. Practically the Russian army has not changed since then. And consequences are fateful. The inability of the federal Russian army with an estimated 100.000 soldiers to contain, let alone defeat, Chechen guerrillas thought to number fewer than 10.000 (the moral aspect of that military campaign has to be discussed separately) and the humiliating defeats which the Chechens inflicted on government forces in 1995 have moved the President and his administration to talk about acceleration of military reforms.
It would seem that the advantages of the professional system are clear. Why then such countries as Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Norway do not cancel the system of military service? The reason is that military service in those states is a matter of ideology. The facts of war in Vietnam when American soldiers that signed a contract refused to attack enemies, pleading lack of promised fruit juices and ice-cream, are very well known.
Suvorov, the Russian general who lost none of his 70 battles, said: "More conveniences, less courage". It looks as if Germans and Scandinavians agree with him. They say: "A soldier must discharge his duty to his country; military service is not a chance to earn money".
So it is difficult to choose between professional and compulsory systems. People have the only hope. There are reasons to think that 21st century could be a a more relaxed period for nations than 20th century. Only diplomatic rather than military means will solve any conflict.
