<ICLE-RU-MOS-0001.5>

It is common knowledge in what way people's activities affect nature nowadays, that human interaction with the environment often turns out to be harmful, if not to say, destructive, disastrous or even fatal. The main sources of pollution are plants, factories, automobile and manufacturing industries which cause an ecological imbalance and therefore threaten the life of flora and fauna as well as the life of the mankind. One can not keep away from this problem because we all live together in the society, and as we are all a part of nature it must be our common issue.
The words by Victor Hugo were never so true to life as they are at the present moment. Regarding a present ecological situation the world was never so concerned about its future as it is now. The problem has become of vital importance. Air, water are polluted.
Rare species of animals are constantly extincting. Fish gets mutated adjusting to the new conditions. A great danger is ozone gaps which let through the harmful rays destroying all the living cells. People tame wild animals which are destined either to remain in caves for the rest of their lives or never to be able to get accustomed again to their former way of life.
As soon as insects which spoil crops and bacilla which ruin living beings' health get used to the counteraction made by a man he has again to find out new means to fight against them. For instance, against those bacilla which cause catching diseases, such as typhoid, smallpox, plague and now AIDS. As soon as a man invents a medium to counteract their effect, new kinds of vermin appear much stronger and more malign than the previous,carrying more serious infections to a living-being or a plant. That is why epidemic diseases are so frequent these days in many parts of the world.
Another problem of a great concern is a green-house effect - the result of the pollution of the air. It is the gradual slight process of the warming of the air (about 0,05 C each year) caused by carbon dioxide collecting in space immediately around the Earth, not being able to escape through its upper levels into space.
Apart from this we also suffer from streams of radiation that comes from the electric equipment (especially, from TV-sets, computers, mobile telephones etc.), from outer space, from the ground, from powerstations and other sources of energy.
People like to make experiments with wild animals and plants, taming the former and transplanting the latter. Especially, rare animals are very popular - dolphins, whales and other mammals, crocodiles. I think it is reasonable to think twice whether it will be safe for animals and plants to be moved to a new place which they are not accustomed to before doing it.
Somehow it happens that what a man creates with his own hands and makes it work for himself does not really do good to nature. Cars, machines, factories, plants pollute air, water and soil. Fumes make plants fade and they reduce the quality and the quantity of the crop. As far as we deal with the soil as a part of nature we receive its gratitude. It seems that for taking care of it, making it more fertile, tilling, plowing, digging it we receive such a good reward as fresh air, rich crop, health, physical strength, bright brains and what not.
Life in big industrialized densely populated cities has made citizens weak, less resistant to various illnesses. It causes nervous breakdowns, different psychological and physical diseases, depressions, the feelings of envy, competition, mutual misunderstanding and even suicides. These are inevitable consequences of industrial revolution.
Now, as cities are becoming larger, we are more than ever in need of natural conditions for our life: green spaces, gardens, fresh air, we are in need of planting more and more trees to provide oxygen so significant for our living, in need of protecting the old plants surrounding us. One can hardly deny how radically the atmosphere changes in spring when newly appeared leaves and blossoming trees give a stream of freshness and fragrance. Why not make life the constant spring?
As far as many achievements have been made in science, different substances appeared, such as radioactive ones, discovered by Pierre and Mary Cury. Could these people imagine that their discovery would be used for making weapons and for the work of powerful atomic stations rather than for treating people to some serious diseases? Emerson was right when he said : <*>. Atomic energy needs a great amount of care and skill. Sheer carelessness may lead to horrid disasters, such as Chernobyl tragedy which still has its long-lasting effect.
Furthermore, the burial of contaminants is also a very vital issue. I dare say, it happens the first time when nature is not able to decompose the substances buried in the ground into smaller natural ones. The underwater destruction of contaminants also threatens the life of sea beings and plants. Even those which survive get mutated and infect others.
In general, nature is such a harmonious system which can control its inner processes: either make up for the lost elements or decompose unnecessary compound substances into simpler elements. Without man's interference this natural cycle of matters goes well. It ensures constant nature's revival and the eternal life of flora and fauna. It is quite obvious that a man who breaks into this harmoniously established world with the machines, industry, radioactive substances should weaken the capacity of natural processes for self-regulation and should cause the ecological imbalance.
I believe, that natural calamities have much to do with people's relationships. In this respect one may recall that the clash between Armenian and Azerbaidzan peoples resulted in a terrible earthquake which took away many lives. One may call it a mere coincidence, if he likes, but it is common knowledge that this region is still one of the most seismic focus centres in the world. At the same time wars, crimes are very frequent there nowadays. Indeed, "nature is calling out" to us to stop wars, to make peace with each other and with nature. It is calling to our sense of responsibility for our childen, families, for the whole world.
It is worth admiring that there exist such organizations like "Greenpeace" which protect the environment, that new technologies are being worked out to prevent industries from polluting air, making noise, that new cars are made to work on a gas engine, which gives no fumes.
We are people, sensible well-equipped human beings. We can enter a new century with a triumph over the evil ruining nature, our life. We are to make an important decision whether to let this process of pollution go further and let things drift or to take pains to protect nature, to prevent industries from polluting the atmosphere to ensure safe, healthy life for our children.
Otherwise, the state of affairs may acquire an irrevocable character and all the mankind will be doomed to degeneration.
