<ICLE-RU-MOS-0007.5>

I am not sure that Marx would replace religion with television. His attitude towards religion was undoubtedly negative (I dare say towards opium, too). As a clever and attentive man he would certainly notice how popular television is today, although it has never replaced religion.
So what does the opium has to do with television?
They are both very popular. Television is popular because it is accessible to everybody. Drugs - because they are illegal and because today they are also available, although of course not so freely as television.
Opium relieves pain and induces sleep. Low doses can help the people who suffer, but anyone can become dependent if he or she takes the drug regularly. It is interesting that environmental stress and problems are considered to be the factors that lead to the addiction.
This longish and detailed description of opium might seem unnecessary. But now let us try to compare its characteristic features with those of television.
Lonely friendless people living a life of daily routine and hopeless boredom can sit glued to the TV set hour after hour. They can become lovely young men, they can experience all the excitement, romance, thrills and adventures that their life is so empty of. They can be anyone they want : a spy, a murderer, a passionate lover, a prince or a princess, and even a visitor from another planet. They only have to twist the dial and change their drab existence into an abundant, fulfilling electric reality.
Can we say now that television relieves pain and induces dreams? Isn't it an escape from environmental stress and problems? And anyone can become dependent. Of course, lonely and friendless people are more prone to TV dependence, but not necessarily.
My granny, for example, is a very cheerful woman. She has brought up two daughters, two granddaughters, and now she is bringing up her great-grandson. She always has quite a lot of work to do. But all the free time she has she spends watching different soap operas. There are three or four of them at the same time on different channels and she finds them all very different and very interesting.
As far as younger generation is concerned, I can speak about my nephew who is three years old. He is keen on cartoons. When "Tom and Jerry" is on, he reacts to nothing. You can offer him his favourite sweets or biscuits, or suggest that you read his favourite book or even play football - no reaction until the cartoon is over. And he by no means suffers from the daily routine and hopeless boredom. He just enjoys watching bright funny drawings.
When I was younger I used to go to the pioneer camp for two or three months. There was no television there and when I came home I felt that I had missed it so much. I spend several days watching all the programs indiscriminately, refusing to go for walks or to read books.
Television is certainly not a narcotic. But I think that psychologically it is a dependence-producing phenomenon. Sometimes a good news-program in the morning is as indispensable as a cup of coffee or a cigarette, and fifteen minutes of a favourite soap opera are somewhat like a dose of drugs.
