<ICLE-RU-MOS-0001.3>

It is only lately that our society has reached the conclusion that the prison system in this country is outdated. Now we are having more and more publications on the subject in our press. Here and there we can hear and read that prisoners fight for their rights, demand better conditions for work and life. In other words they simply want to be treated like all other human beings.
As far as conditions of life in prison in this country are concerned they leave very much to be desired. People do not have even elementary conveniences , the quality of their food is awful. There is no need to say that prisoners do not have any possibilities for education. Whereas in many other countries of the world people already long ago came to realise the rehabilitating power of education.
Criminals in prison live according to their own laws where the strongest subordinates those who are weak and cannot do anything in order to defend themselves. Here people at every turn come across violence, cruelty and scorn.
As the result they leave prison being cruel, embittered, intolerant; they are not able to live a normal life again. Without having education they cannot get a good job. And generally speaking they cannot get any job at all because as a rule managers avoid employing such people. Thus, the society itself makes former criminals go in for other crimes. And they in their turn begin to take their revenge on the society.
The situation in children's reformatory schools is even worse because children there are at an impressionable age, they are easily influenced. If an adult can make an effort and resist one's influence over his person, a child is not able to do this, because he simply has got no view of violence and cruelty of his own. As soon as a child is put into prison he immediately grows up. He is not a child any more. Nobody will take care of him but himself ; nobody will bring him up but his surroundings. He does not know that in the outer world people live according to other laws. In reformatory schools children become like animals who have to fight to survive. And it is only the strongest and the most malicious who survives. Unfortunately more often than not their way of life can be easily foretold : they are sure to be put into prison again.
Certainly, on the one hand, these people did a lot of harm to the society or its representatives, but, on the other hand, the reasons for that are different in every case. We should take into consideration that not all criminals commit crimes deliberately. Some of them really realise their guilt and repent of it. They still can change their lives and the society should help them and prevent them from new crimes.
