<ICLE-RU-MOS-0019.2>

Would he really? Could we put the sign of equality between the notions of 'television' and 'religion'?
Each new civilization creates its own Religion, the one which is based on the accumulated knowledge. Thus Progress is revealed in Faith. Ancient tribes were pagan. And what else could they be with their primitive perception of the Universe? The moment man learned to create and destroy with his own hands he thought himself equal to gods, and, as a result, God was seen as a human being. Man enjoyed his new knowledge and skills and continued to develop them. He could proudly call himself a creator. God was assumed to be a universe wisdom, which man should try to approach, to rise to. God was a pattern to follow. And as a copyist consults the pattern each time he loses the line, man turned to God whenever he got to a deadlock. Like a crying child running to be comforted by his farther, man turned to God in trouble and grief. ( Frankly speaking, I do not believe in man's turning to Religion in happiness. Even if there are such cases I think these people beg their God to protect whatever fragile happiness they happened to get.) Pursuing the way of defeats and victories, creating and destroying, Man approached the top, not of knowledge, as this has no limits, but of his own activeness. In the words of the fairy tales, once upon a time ( at the end of the 20th century) man created television. The merits of the progress unexpectedly turned out to be a fake. One of the chief inventions of the civilization did not speed up the further progress, but slowed it down. And the creator became the observer. The religions of all the civilizations were their products and followed the similar pattern: religions enhanced progress at the beginning and then inhibited it. Now we are witnesses of the similar process, concerning television. Undoubtedly, to substantiate successfully the equality of Religion and Television, one could find a lot of other similarities between Religion and Television, besides the fact that they both were created by man and once turned to destroy him. But Marx accused Religion of diverting people of 'class struggle': instead of fighting for equal rights, freedoms, and better world, man turned to Religion for consolation in his routine griefs. Did TV inherit this role of Religion as well?
TV = cocaine Being a favorite toy of masses, TV has supplanted all other interests. In this accelerating world there is no time for selfeduction, recreation, even work. You have no time to think about what happens round you, and what you should do to make the situation better? And should you do it really? Television is going to decide all your problems. It dictates political views, fashions, tastes, modes of behavior, beliefs, likes and dislikes, concepts of the Universe. Sink deeper in your arm-chair and watch TV! The update motto is to relax and forget everything. And what will help you better than TV? I could name thousands of people who give up worrying about their banks and trust collapsing the moment another episode of 'Santa-Barbara' starts on TV. Soap-operas will save the world. Who can go to burgle and rob while Veronica Castra is again fighting her way to the top? Would it not be easier to get a new car through 'Spot the Tune' than by means of blackmail and fraud. Last week my brother stayed home watching 'AIDS-Info' instead of rushing out to his new mistress: watching sex needs no efforts on your part and brings satisfaction without any unwanted consequences. On the other hand, now you do not need to read all those thick volumes by Tolstoy, as you can see the TV versions. You need not to go and demonstrate your political beliefs in cold autumnal streets full of armed police, because it is safer to stay home and watch others demonstrate. You express your approval or disapproval to your kin while chewing another helping of your favorite dish. You are passive and calm. But there are times when your TV religion is in danger. TV studios could be destroyed by hooligans and what then? I heartily believe that the siege of 'Ostankino' could be a sound reason to start military actions in Moscow in 1994. We should protect our idols, should we not!
