<ICLE-RU-MOS-0012.3>

Being a student of philological faculty of Lomonosov University, having in the course of lectures those subjects of study that are not considered to be part of science, such as modern and especially English language and literature you are supposed to read a lot. After having been acquainted with the literary works which are on the list, which are recommended by your teachers you would be extremelly surprised by hearing that dreaming and imagination do exist no longer.
All those pieces of writing and art show us use of the imagination. Elaborately arranged in patterns of lines and of sounds, as in poetry, they express thoughts, feelings or human experience in language full of imagination. On the other hand, a writer of fiction by using techniques which are different from those reguired in poetry, inoents people and events. Writers who are good at inventing imaginary things or artistic forms or at producing new ideas are highly esteemed and respected in the society. There is something mysterious in that occupation. We should ask ourselves why serious people devote their lives to empty dreamings, which are really nothing to be cared about. As history tells us many things are written, but few are remembered. And very few ( from;of) poets have built for themselves monuments more durable than brass. They said something which mankind can not forget, though very often their words can not be understood.
It is my favorauble chance of making intelligible convictions of mine concerning the world of dreaming and imapination which to a certain degree is associated by myself with Literature Studying literature, we are learning to become accustomed to a kind thinking which is not the ordinary kind of thinking at all.
To my mind, literature is the whole world which is rather different from the common one. By teaching us, it changes us, makes us from our own convictions and draw our own conclusions which are not similar to the opinions generally held in the society today.
It is thought that our modern world is dominated by science technology and industrialization. This point of view is widely spread(y) nowadays. But I think it is a rather simple-minded approach to the understanding of the world, which does not show maturity and sophistication. For the first sight, it seems to be like childish fears of lightning and thunder.
Being a student of philology you are supposed to form a habit of checking up every unknown and doubtful word in the dictionary. In my Longmau Dictionary of English, languade and culture the verb 'to dominate' has two meanings. And there is some sort of an uncertainty which explanation should be chosen. If we admit the firstone it would mean that our statement would declare that science has the most important place in the modern world that it plays the most important role in the society. In that case I would like to say that there is nothing to argue about, just because it is not true. Half-subconsciously I believe that the second meaning is more suitable for us. In that case the statement about science as dominating and domineering power, controlling life of mankind really sounds very threateningly. It follows that people who think so are frightened. It is common knowledge that fears arise when a person is tired or depressed.
We thout doubt this world is not the right place for people to live together in perfect harnury. Even a thick-skinned person not speaking about people of delicate and subfle nature can suffer the neverending fighting. But what a human being really needs is place, although this world is not the suitable place to find it. Here, I think, literature can help us. I love a lot the words from the novel 'Painted Veil' by my favourite writer Somerset Maughtn 'one cannot find peace in work or in pleasure, in the world or in a convent, but only in one's soul.'
I think, it would be sutable here to notice that in her book 'What is the English we use?' O. S. Ahkmanova refers us to G. H. Vallins.
According to G. H. Vallins 'Literature as distinct from ephemeral writing and officialese, preserves whut is best and most worthy out of the past and hands it on as a living tradition.'
That is why from generation to generation people tell their children fairy tales, buy them beautiful books with many pictures, then send them to school. Children must be able to read and write, be acquainted with what is the most precious which mankind has been accumulated. To my mind literature is able to change a person. I know about myself that I would have been a sort common schoolgirl if I had not read a lot. It is also known about famous poets that more often than not reading awakened their genuis, they tried to imitate and succuded. So it might be said that literature is the salvation and consolation to mankind from evil powers in this world.
