<ICLE-RU-MOS-0015.4>

Being a woman I would like to speak on the subject of feminism openly and sincerely.
At first sight feminist movement may appear very attractive but I am afraid it is self-destructive in a way.
Why are there feminists? Basically it is a response to men's bad leadership.
Although men and women can be equal as far as opportunities go, if one is ready to face the truth, one should admit their roles in life are different. It is pretty obvious that in their rebellion women attempt to get rid of the feeling of insecurity or to never let men hurt them again.
What is their goal? To have equality with men, especially in the areas of jobs and pay, in order to be independent, to enjoy life as men do, to get a sense of fulfilment; in other words not to let men spoil their lives. Women desire to play an equal part in the society. They want nothing to prevent them from being free and having their own way so that to prove they are as much important, intelligent, talented, etc. However, the ultimate goal is their happiness.
Do women succeed in achieving their ambitions? The answer to this question may be positive in many respects. What the early feminists had to fight for is now taken for granted. Women and men have equality in work ( at least in theory ) ; women can study what they want. While in Russia women are still far from being completely free, for instance because of the housing problem, Western women seem to be quite independent. Both in the East and in the West women may work in government, in business; they fly into space, set records in sports, become painters, writers, designers, musicians, do TV shows, fight against crime and even fight fires. Women still get physically and emotionally abused and so far no regulations have been able to prevent it ; otherwise women have got what they have been fighting for. Let's see now how it has changed their lives, the status of men and the society on the whole.
Does work bring joy and fulfilment into the life of a woman? Probably, balance is the key word here. I believe there are very few women who are really content with their routine jobs. Whether radical feminists like it or not, a woman is called upon to be a wife and mother where the real treasures most women look for are hidden if there is a good leadership of a man in the family. Women can afford to be immersed in their work if their home and their family are taken proper care of . When they are not , it costs the society a great deal of problems.
For example, a high level of crime and drug abuse among teenagers. Although we may understand why a woman would want more from life than domestic responsibilities, we must realise that caring for a home, husband and children are extremely important functions society cannot do without.
In another respect, now that women are not considered to be of less value ( being a woman I am as precious in the eyes of God as any other person in the world ), the crucial difference between men and women is somehow being obliterated. Men are not expected any more to use their influence to provide for and protect those in their care. So often women are not treated in the right manner. Although many liberated women show righteous indignation when men are being gentlemanly or resolute, I am convinced that deep down in their hearts women are hurt  much more when they are neglected. But how can we expect  men to treat women right if a " gentle, quiet spirit " that is so precious in a woman is well forgotten by so many of the fair sex? On the other hand, women may complain about men not being masculine or caring enough; but how should he react when his wife tells him: "Shut up! I can tell the story better "?
So have women found happiness they have been so eager to pursue in their struggle? More opportunities can hardly guarantee happiness. Many women would argue and say that they can do without men in their lives as ones whom they would rely on as bread-winners and protectors. But I am sure if a strong and loving man showed up even the toughest woman would like to give him a chance. And that's the way it is although the right to vote is a very important achievement.
Women have to be honest and strong enough to take the responsibility to change their sex-role in the society. I don't know who sees any good in dominant, aggressive women and weak, tamed and vulnerable men. Women should stop deceiving themselves, let go with the fear they have and give men a chance to be men using all the patience and loving kindness they are given.
By no means women are to be looked down at. But if we really want our sick society to be healed and our distorted perspective to be changed we need to accept that God intended man and woman to be different. If women continue to go to extremes and do their best to prove that it is just the other way round, it will do as much good as jumping from a ten-storied building trying to persuade oneself that there is no gravity.
