<ICLE-RU-MOS-0012.2>

Nobody knows when the first prisons were invented and came into being, but, no doubt, they appeared in the civilised society, where people could really appreciate freedom and understand, that taking one's freedom  away is a terrible punishment, and only taking one's life can be worse.
Theoretically an imprisonment as taking one's freedom for a definite period of time, makes a person understand how precious is the freedom. And in future a former prisoner is supposed to do his best not to get into  prison again ( now I'm not talking about life imprisonment, which usually is just a more human substitution of the death penalty.) But practice shows that a vast majority of people, who once were put into  prison, commit crimes again, a predicted punishment for which is another imprisonment. And it is really a vicious circle.
Of course, the prison system has its advantages and disadvantages. It is really a disputable point whether an imprisonment is still the most effective way of punishment or whether it is outdated and modern society should invent a new way of re-educating its criminals.
On the one hand, it seems to be an indisputable question, that criminals should be isolated from the society, and, certainly  the prison system perfectly suits this purpose but crimes are so various, and it is really illogical to have just one way of punishing for all of them. Of course, the prison sentences differ according to each crime, but, anyway, the personality is not taken into consideration, and this often makes people  commit crime again.
Society thinks ( and it, certainly, has all reasons for that), that a criminal should expiate his fault, but yet society hasn't realised, that sending criminal to  prison is not the best way of expiation.
Prisoners are supposed to work, and usually they do the most hard and dirty work, which is practically unpaid. But it's obvious that such unpaid and unfree work can not be effective and productive. So, the society doesn't have any use of prisoners' work. May be it could be better not to put to  prison those people, whose crimes are not very serious and who are not dangerous somehow for the society. They can stay free, but certainly in the centre of intent attention of the police and psychologists, who will not let them  commit a new crime. In this case a person can go on with his job without losing his proficient skills while being in  prison and stay with his family as well.
This, I think, should be of primary interest and importance for the society. It was always believed that children from the families, where one of the parents is put into prison commit crimes more frequently  than children from normal families. And no doubt, it is in the interests of the society not to let these new crimes  be committed.
Sending criminals to  prison, society expects to re-educate them, but in the vast majority of cases people, and especially young people, are so shocked by their getting into  prison, that they grow bitter and dream about revenge. And, as usually they don't mean a particular person , they desire to punish all the world. Naturally, it has nothing to do with re-education. This bitter and angry prisoners consider themselves to be victims and they even don't think about expiation. Prison makes a person bitter, cruel and vindictive, and it is  most terrible, aimless, because being in prison,  a person has one main aim and dream - to get free. When he gets free he meets a great number of problems outside the prison: he usually cannot get  a job, as he has lost professional skills; he is alien in the society and sometimes even in his own family. And person commits a new crime and gets into prison again, but this time it's not so shocking and frightening for him. And who knows, may be the third time sending him to prison will not be a punishment for him at all.
We should admit that  the prison system is not the best and the most effective system of re-educating criminals, but the fact is that prisons existed from the ancient times. Always and everywhere people were discussing whether it is the best way of re-educating criminals and, probably, tried to invent something effective. The prison system is not perfect, but it is, perhaps, the best of all possible. At least mankind did not invent anything new during long years of existing of mankind itself,  of crimes, criminals and the problem of their re-educating.
