<ICLE-RU-MOS-0005.2>

It is really true that the world of science and technology is rapidly developing. Every year life in the human society becomes more civilised. New technologies, new machines, new services are invented for the people, our modern civilisation spreads. New discoveries make the standards of living higher and higher. Our modern world is completely rational and science, computers and machines really play an extremely important part in our daily lives. We have such great services as electricity, television, radio and many others at our disposal. Sometimes it even seems that there is nothing more to discover.
When the human society was not so developed people had only rudimentary knowledge of the world around them. People in the primitive society were afraid of such phenomenon as, for instance, thunder lightning because they could not explain these strange things. So they used their imagination and tried to make these inexplicable things clear and understandable. During thousands of years the mankind gradually broadened its vision and now scientific discoveries may throw light on almost every phenomenon. But still there exists a number of things which require some investigation. Many explanations are still hypothesises.
I would not deny that in our extremely rational world people acquired a rather realistic world view. People who believe that there is no longer a place for dreaming and imagination may be partly right from this point of view. We do not believe in miracles very much. But however imagination is something that belongs to the human nature and people do dream very often. They do dream, whether they are satisfied with the reality or not.
We cannot say that imagination is something outdated nowadays. There always exists one thing which is very closely connected with the world of fantasy - this is childhood. Children always remain children - whether the society they live in is industrialised or not. They play games, they fantasise, they believe in fairy-tales.
One more unreal part of our real world is literature - no one would deny that fiction contains a certain amount of imagination.
People enjoy reading books because they are interesting and each book has its own imaginary world, atmosphere made up by an author. We read about this world, we plunge into this atmosphere, we somehow try to sympathise with the characters, to live like they live, or to feel what they do.  As far as I am concerned I always try to put myself in their shoes. Literature is a brilliant exercise for speculating about the reality. Fiction is full of eternal problems such as good  and evil, love, kindness and humanity.
As far as imagination is concerned poetic literature is a case in point. It deals with symbols, images, figures of speech which are often based  on the poet's associations, on his fantasies. I do not think that poetry is outdated nowadays. Life, culture and literature are very closely connected.
Every person has his own inner word and imagination is the inseparable part of it. If there were no fantasy in people's minds, if we excluded dreaming from our everyday lives, life simply would not be interesting enough and it is my opinion that people with vivid imagination make this world more exciting. I believe that  imagination is something we should not lose in our modern world obsessed with science and technology.
While speculating on this subject I came to the conclusion that it is difficult now to draw a distinct line between miracle and reality. Science can make wonderful things.  A few centuries ago people were dreaming about the things which are firmly established now. Who knows what tomorrow brings? Probably things that seem to be fantastic today a few years later can turn to be a reality. Life is changing all the time. Some day our dreams can come true. There is a probability that today's fantasies will not be fantasies tomorrow, and science and technology can provide a great help to it.
