<ICLE-RU-MOS-0013.4>

Since World War II society's image of woman has changed as quickly as the fashion trends. The ideal dominated in one season becomes outmoded in  the next. One season women's groups and the world's media are promoting a " feminist movement", then a few years later, the movement is being called an "unfortunate, embarrassing relic of the Sixties". Many women start searching for the real me" only to be deceived or frustrated as they attempt to become whatever is the present-day image of woman. But finally, one day they discover that deep inside they are not the person they have accidentally become. They just get inwardly rebellious and confused. Others are afraid to admit what they really desire to become. They hesitate to talk about what they believe is their real potential. Repression seems easier to deal with that rejection. Some women have known how to receive roses, dinners and diamonds, but they have never had the stability, security, real love they truly desire. Our world is one of disposable diapers, disposable razors and even disposable women. Women are deserted and discarded every day. Today convenience outweighs commitment and devotion. Disappointed and dissatisfied, women seek legislation to make society  change. They verbally demand for people to change. The following questions: 1) How can we determine the changes that need to be made  2) Who are the people who must do the changing 3) Who will enforce the changes  4) Where is there justice and power , will never be answered by any women's groups that try to achieve the successive "ideal", and each such "ideal" proves to be confining and constricting to women. A lot of women get discouraged and disappointed in the others, and as a result, in themselves.
	  True womanhood can never be measured by society's praises, but by a woman's own character as measured by the World of God. Women are a unique creation of God. Both men and women have a God-given uniqueness, and each is a complement to the other. However, many women have had that uniqueness damaged, changed or twisted in some way and have been robbed, hurt, and limited in their womanhood. According to the mass media, in America, for example, every fifteen seconds, a woman is beaten. Yet, back in 1986 a woman was a victim of rape or attempted rape every three and a half minutes. Seventy-seven percent of the victims of violent crimes committed by relatives are women. How about emotional deprivation, mental abuse, physical neglect and other things?  Have you noticed any improvement in their lives ever since? I personally haven't. I bet above mentioned practices have not ever been stopped by anybody. Women survive, but carry the pain, resentment, bitterness, and sense of loss with them all through life. Most learn to suppress and repress the experiences  with the memories and hurt, but they never enjoy the true freedom of being uniquely a woman. I do believe, that Him and His Word only will do a lot of good, and He has already given a way for full restoration of that uniqueness. I also believe if people believed in the Bible there wouldn't be so much made-up stuff. A biblical understanding of men and women shows that each derives satisfaction from different sources. Men were created in Adam, who was given stewardship over the earth to guide, guard and govern , and to oversee the reproduction process on earth. So a man's uniqueness is basically satisfied in relationship to his job, and his fulfilment comes from the reproduction process involved in it. For example, a salesman's fulfilment is in a satisfied customer. Adam was "alone". For love to exist, there must be an object of love. When God created the woman, He took a rib from Adam to make her. The rib was symbolic of something taken from Adam and placed in Eve. We know that God breathed into Adam, and he became a living soul. Adam had the nature of God implanted in him - both the masculine and feminine, tender and tough, disciplinarian and nurturer. Woman was made from man in the beginning, but ever since then, man has come from woman. God shows the equality of men and women. The World took the feminine, the tenderness of His own nature and gave them to the woman, leaving the man with the masculine, the tough, the disciplinarian.
	  So the man's greatest fulfilment is in the reproduction process, and so is the woman's. A man's uniqueness is basically satisfied in relationship to his job, but a woman's one is basically satisfied in relationship to a man.
	  Today's society puts a heavy burden on both men and women. Men feel the pressure to perform; women feel the pressure to conform. Her husband may pressure her to conform to his "ideal" of a wife. Consciously or subconsciously, she also feels the pressure from her children, parents, friends to conform to their images of her. Even modern media manipulates them, imposes their concepts of womanliness. It is no wonder women today appear confused, wounded and discouraged. Trying to gratify others' expectation frustrates a woman who wishes to achieve her own goals in life, to gain the reward of fulfilment.
	  Resentment against those who will not accept her as she is will cause anger or breakdown.
	  God's answer is to please Him first and foremost. By pleasing God, a woman will be pleasing the others, including herself.
