<ICLE-RU-MOS-0011.4>

In Chicago, two boys are sentenced to prison after dropping a 5 year old out of a 14th - story window because he wouldn't steal candy for them. Those boys are 12 and 13 years old. This world is getting crazy. Film full of violence appear on the screen with numbing repetition. Films which are destroying souls and minds of little kinds. America and Russia are quite alike. Some problems can't be solved, no matter who's looking for solutions. One Russian boy who was 12 years old blamed his vices on his parents. And he was right. He was right because he's dead now. Nobody cares what his parents feel now. Nobody wants to care his life was a real mess.
He was 12 years old, weak, sick and poor. He was 12. He cursed like a truck driver. You may wonder who taught him this? And I'll answer - his parents. His family was the reason of his bad behaviour. He was the only child. Patents simply forgot about him. He was out all days long. He was together with his friends, who taught him to smoke, to drink, to play cards, to do drugs. Did he like it? Yes. He just showed off. He wanted to be strong and do a lot in his life. Being on the street could he do that? Could he dream of a high education, mastering a trade or applying for a job. He couldn't. It was easier for him to steal things. He stole everything, everything which could be stolen. I don't think that he became happier after buying VCR machine, drinking a six-pack a day, shelling out his money like mad. He was the same weak guy, but then 15 - year old guy, who had some problems with his lungs. Doctors said he had asthma. He understood that pretty well. Did he care? Sometimes yes. When he was choking and couldn't reach for his medication. In Russia winters are severe. So that's why Russians wear those fur hats which cover not only your head but also your neck, your ears and most of your face. He was cool. He didn't want to wear any hats. He was proving to everybody he was strong, healthy and competent. But his weak head cracked. His head couldn't bear that frost that - 31'C temperature. He was rushed to the hospital and he needed some surgery. The next day he was operated on. But something got wrong during the operation. And he was partly paralysed. He couldn't move his left arm and left leg. Every day he was given a lot of medications and couldn't breathe because of his asthma. It was spring then. Then summer came. He was released and went to his gramps to live in a country house.
There was nothing for him to do in town. There was nobody to speak to him.
He died on a quiet morning in the fall. He was only 16 years old. He was greatly deceived.
Sorry I didn't write about his crimes, his rapes, his drug-selling, his wrongdoing That's not the point.
