<ICLE-RU-MOS-0026.4>

As for me - I totally disagree with this statement. First of all I think that a human being cannot live without imagination. Fantasy, our ability to dream is, probably, the most significant thing that differs people from all the other creatures. True, without imagination humankind will not become monkeys again; but people would cease being people in the proper sense of the word. They would turn into robots, callous machines... Not for nothing in Zamiatin's novel "We" the state, in order to suppress the disobedient mechanisms, deprived the people of fantasy.
In fact, a human being doesn't need much in order to keep living (to eat, to sleep, to have a roof over one's head...). But culture - in order to exist and to develop needs "excesses" (like literature, music and "dissertation about the Latin pronunciation in the higher institutes of learning in  Southern Italy XII century" - from H. Hesse), for  culture itself is an "excess".
Humankind can only develop with the help of the creative ability of a man. And this ability is indissolubly connected with imagination.
But it doesn't mean to say that technology and imagination, fantasy cannot exist together. On the contrary the development of the technology urges the imagination forward. Earlier, when the world was not yet explained so well by the scientists, a man used his imagination so that he could explain nature, all the unknown and strange phenomena (storms, rains, lightnings, etc.). And people invited gods, wood-goblins, water-sprites and mermaids.
Now we know the causes of the physical effects and natural phenomena. And it seems that there is no more place for wonders in this world. This is not true. People need wonders. And, instead of the old, explained ones they keep on thinking of the new, a hundred times more mystical and shocking. And technology becomes part of these new tales and legends (like "Terminator" for example). The Earth is quite investigated and developed, - people immediately begin to dream of the opening up of new planets and outer space.
The development of science and technology gave the powerful urge to such a comparatively new "branch" of fiction as science fiction. All these robots, machines, super-modern technologies - what a scope for imagination! The more elaborated becomes the technique, the more excelled becomes the fantasy of the writers.
It has been clearly explained and proved, that there is no life after death, and there is no such thing as a soul... But there is something in the human nature that resists, objects to this rational, materialistic view of the world. That is why all  sorts of spiritualistic seances and mediums became a stable part of our lives.
We know that the atmospheric pressure affects our health. But it is so boring to live in the world where everything is so simple and understandable. And we begin to search for the invisible, irrational connections between different things and phenomena. That is why all kinds of the astrological forecasts became so popular among people...
I am absolutely convinced that people will never stop dreaming. The world, our life full of disappointment, worries and sorrows is constantly pressing on us and sometimes one really needs to rest, to forget all the troubles - to seek oblivion ( temporal, of course) - that is when people begin to dream. And very often dreams become our only consolation - but how powerful they are! Our fantasy, our dreams give us strength and stimulus to live and to create.
Modern technology can make our life more and more comfortable and secure, but no comfort or convenience will ever replace the imagination. People always want and dream of more than they have (in the broadest sense of the word).
