<ICLE-RU-MOS-0009.3>

It is generally assumed and recognised that feminism is one the powerful trends in the social life in the United States and in Europe. As far as I know it has a lot of branches from the moderate ones to the most radical, and sometimes they have opposite opinions on certain problems. Theoretical principles of feminism are well known. But there is always a complicated interconnection between theory and real life.
As for me, I sympathise with most slogans of feminism. There are of course some , as it were , " extra " ones which cannot be regarded seriously. For example in Russia a child gets his second name after his father and some feminists suggest that Russian women must fight against it.
I agree that a woman has the right for abortion, but at the same time one cannot ignore the responsibility for it . Some feminists now struggle for the right for unhealthy trade. But women who are going to work at those unhealthy enterprises should realise all the possible consequences. But , of course it is up to them to decide. Woman should be regarded as an adult being : she can have all the rights and she must take all the responsibility for her actions. My opinion is that it is the lack of responsibility which is the problem of feminism in general. I don't approve that kind of feminism, which has its origin in psychological problems of a woman. When she dresses carelessly or says that she will never agree to any compromise with a man. It is easy to understand that it is her problem she fights against and probably she needs some psychological treatment. I don't approve feminism as a play in Amazons. But I cannot say that I don't support feminism at all.
Women have real problems nowadays. They want to belong both to the family and to the society, and what they badly need is men's concern and awareness of their problems. A family is a very important matter, and it demands a careful attitude. There are always two human beings who decide what is better for them to do.
Another complicated question is the traditional culture, which is rather masculine oriented and contains a number of prejudices. When one tries to change something in this field one should approach it with all the necessary precautions.
When we speak of violence against women, of force which is used to deprive them of their earnings we should be realistic about it. If we are going to fight against it, there must be some strategy. Not making a row immediately, it won't help. No man would say that he wants to deprive a woman of something or use violence against her. May be he doesn't do it deliberately.
I think that the majority of men are still under pressure of the traditional culture. Thus, often we come across the problem of understanding. Anyway feminism cannot interfere with the private life of a family and cannot force enterprises to hire those employees, who are not particularly desirable. There always will be found some reasonable pretexts to get rid of the volunteers to defend women's rights.
As long as I live in Russia let me analyse those changes in common consciousness that feminism brought about in this country. The situation now is much different as compared with countries of traditional capitalist orientation. In the former Soviet Union women didn't have to fight for the right to work, to have abortions; formally they could be elected. But in real life equal rights for women turned out to be an obligation to work hard under unhealthy conditions. I think that there are only in this country women- miners and women working in road-building. Every woman was supposed to work. Children grew up in kindergartens. At the same time house-keeping is considered to be a purely feminine work. Thus, an  average woman used to do shopping after the work or at lunch time, and then when she was off prepared dinner for her family. In my opinion it is impossible to make a successful career  when one is so busy with other matters. It is a wonder that some women did it ! They were rarely represented in the management and almost never in the governmental structures.
Also the oppression caused many psychological problems. The ideology tried to foster sexless people. There was negative attitude towards feminine behaviour. A socially successful woman in Soviet film production was dressed in overalls, holding pliers in her hands, at the first scene of the film she was leaning to handle a new tractor or a combine harvester.
The state mobilised women to work on different socialist projects, poorly paid. When capitalism came to Russia another slogan appeared : " Women should be brought back home ". A woman should become a woman after all. At the same time they fire women to vacate working places for men.
Thus, there are a lot of reasons why feminism in Russia is different from , say, the one in America. We have the same problems now, but we have a different history. In Russia women are sick and tired of the organised movements. The image of a woman-warrior tastelessly dressed is not very popular among women in this country. Every young girl wants to be attractive and womanly and at the same time she is not going to confine herself to being a secretary even in a good firm.
I suppose, that women decision- makers can do much good for this country. It badly needs a careful treatment, a good host. Feminism in Russia nowadays is a movement of those women who want to be active, to influence political and economical life of the country. It is a shame that in political life the situation is not changing, although some women politicians did appear in recent years.
