<ICLE-RU-MOS-0018.4>

The problem of equality has been discussed time and again by different people, in different books and different situations. But it  still remains unsolved, for the very word 'equality' can be understood in different ways. For example, the rights of men and women in Western countries are supposed to be equal. What does it mean? It means that everyone independent of his or her sex has the same opportunity in choosing a job, getting education, getting married, being retired, etc. But at the same time in this country a woman has never been and will never be elected as a president, I suppose, or it is a very rare fact to meet a woman as a director of a bank or plant, for instance. It happens not because a woman is really not as clever or energetic as a man, but for a simple reason that she is a woman.
Another example of such 'equality' is obvious if we turn to the relationship between a husband and a wife. Not many of women can boast that their only duties are to bring up children and keep her house. The largest part of them have to work, because the salary of her husband is often not enough for living, so a woman has to earn money as well as her husband. But she still remains a mother and a wife, so she can not allow herself to sit in front of TV in the evening after her work. She is also supposed  to organise cooking, washing, cleaning the flat - in other words do all the domestic work. While a man often seems to be very tired after a heavy day and 'has all the rights' to spend his free time as he wants. So how can we talk about equality if the things like this are frequent in our life?
The points talked above were mainly concerned with the rights of men and women, so they were based on the difference in sex, but the same happens to people of different social position. In this case let us turn to children from families of different social levels. It is not a rare fact that a child, whose family is not well off, is really very gifted and clever, but he has no opportunity to get a good education and be a specialist or a professional in a particular field; he has to attend an average school and it is also very difficult for him to develop the gifts he received from God. Whereas for the children from the families of the higher levels of the society such problems do not exist. From the very birth every their step is planned, they have all the possibilities to enter any University they want and choose any job they want.
There is also a problem of elderly people. Sometimes it happens that they want or have to work, but they can not find a job because of their age. They can be good specialists, even professionals, but all the ways for them are closed. That is enough just to look at the advertisements which in most cases announce: "...women or men not elder than 35 are wanted", everything becomes obvious.
In the conclusion we can agree that the words "All men are equal; but some are more equal than others" are really very actual nowadays.
