<ICLE-RU-MOS-0016.4>

Money has been considered to be evil at all times. There were wars, murders, robberies, maladies because of money.
I would like to consider the problem of money in the view of contemporary world. It seems to me that possessing extra money is the beginning of any conflict: political, economical, spiritual. During the wars people producing weapons got a great deal of money. At the same time they did not care about destruction, death, sorrow it brought.
People so that to get money committed different crimes, even killed their close relatives to get inheritance, for instance. Most murders were committed because of mercenary aims.
Most people think that everything can be bought for money including love. That is why some young girls, without having experienced a genuine love, prefer sex for money. Prostitution has as its consequences terrible diseases, moral decay, family conflicts.
People who get money easily, spend it to get their own pleasure without caring about their health and other people's health.
One of the global problems of mankind is drug abuse. Drugs cost a lot of money. So that to buy them people commit crimes. Those who sell drugs are rich people indeed, and they do not care about the fate of those who buy them, although buyers can be their own children.
For instance, in the present-day society there appeared a great number of the so-called "new Russians " who can afford absolutely everything. Young people try to imitate the new Russians. Some years ago children dreamed to become doctors and teachers. Now they are eager to become new Russians. Girls tend to marry such rich men; they want to be wealthy. Nowadays girls prefer marriages of convenience.
There exist young people ( and there is a great many of them ) who do not want to enter institutions and universities  but instead they start trading, without doing any good to the society.
The best brains in our country are bought for money and immigrate abroad,sell their discoveries and inventions instead of serving their own country.
Great sportsmen having achieved success in their own country, go away to play for foreign teams and clubs. Instead of working as trainers in their own countries, instead of bringing up their own young generations, they give all their energy and talent to the foreign states.
The same situation concerns art. Instead of paying good money to their own actors, instead of developing cinema, theatre the new businessmen spend money on foreign video-production; they invite foreign singers and actors, organise night clubs in which young people do not get aesthetic upbringing.
These young people start imitating their idols, but many of them are drug addicts or alcoholics.
And I would like to give one more reason to prove that money is the root of all evil.
There are people who kill animals, and by doing it they earn much money, without caring that some kinds of animals and birds are going to disappear. These kinds of animals are protected by law but these people do not pay any attention to it. Besides they do not obey the law, they do not think about the future of our world. Because of the problems of the ecology there is a threat to the existence of the whole mankind.
There also exist people who destroy forests, build factories and plants which pollute environment by smoke and so on. They grudge money on purifying air and water. We should remember that mankind may perish because of such a careless attitude to nature.
So if all evil in the world happens because of money, I suppose, money is the root of it.
