<ICLE-RU-MOS-0009.2>

If one asked learners what their learning aims are, they will probably answer, in general terms, that they want to improve some or all of their grammar, vocabulary, writing, listening, reading, speaking, while a few of the more enlightened might include pronunciation. These aims are rather too vague.
And how do you think the University should " prepare students for the real world"?
First of all, every single student must prepare himself for the real world without any assistance, independently. Taking into account  the variousness of students' aims it is impossible to establish universal courses which are good for all learners equally. Everybody has different purposes. Generally  speaking, university degrees must be theoretical. If you are well-educated theoretically you have all chances to achieve success in real world. Therefore, it is impossible to say that university degrees are of very little value. It is very likely that a university course was not just time wasting for someone, on the other hand , one could find the lectures in Classical literature useless for the real world.
Being at school, you start to ponder over your future, what you have to know or to learn for your profession. And according to your aims you choose the direction or field of knowledge you want to develop in. Thus, the learner begins to study mathematics, physics, languages that he thinks will be useful for him in future. The role of  the teacher in this process is to direct learners. Learners need guidance as to what  their aims are. When the students are given instructions for a task, let them say what they think the aims of the task are.
Every area of learning is a learner- development area. Many of teachers tell students that the best way to help themselves to make good progress is to read. The learner development must come from the learner. But, the responsibility for promoting such learner development is the teacher's. They should be trying to make their learners development part of their normal teaching. In their turn, learners must learn how to set themselves specific, realistic, and therefore, achievable aims; otherwise they will not see any progress from their efforts, and will, consequently, get frustrated or disillusioned.
Thus, the role of  the  professor and the University as well is to urge  the students, to lay down the foundations, to acquaint  the learners with the basis of  the subject; but details should be mastered by the student himself - nobody can do it better!
And at last, the value of the university education depends on  the quantity of information you have learned. And it is also important how you can use that information.
