<ICLE-RU-MOS-0014.4>

One of the modern Russian poets wrote: "...Мы заблудились в суете И с каждым днем петля все туже..."
I think he is right to some extent. We spend our life in vain, because we lack many important things, and we do not understand it, as from the day we are born we are offered a certain substitute, created by our modern civilisation. And as philosophy suggests, culture is over when civilisation comes. We remember that Leo Tolstoy called to give up civilisation and to be closer to nature.
Technological progress "dries out", emaciates our souls. It is no mere chance that a lot of people think that people in highly developed countries are boring. Their creative potential is very low, their cultural life is slack, they have no imagination, their children lag behind the children of some other countries as far as their mental development is concerned. They are not interested in life, they have no questions, because all the answers are already given. Everything is already given to them by the radio, television, computers, and so on. Children play computer games which are very interesting, colourful, but most of them make an automate out of a child. Those children do not want to read books, and that is a problem, since reading develops imagination. There cannot be any better thing than a book for developing a child's imagination.
If we take music, for example, we will see that all these modern synthesising machines do not leave any place for imagination, because everything is already insinuated. Every sound from the sound of the explosion of an atomic bomb to the sound of a child crying can be found in one row of keys. Of course, it makes our life easier, but the life sound disappears. It is no more natural.
That is one thing which prevents us from dreaming and using our imagination. Another thing is information. Nowadays we get too much information, we cannot cope with it, we cannot cope with the information that pours upon us from everywhere. Our mind gets tired, it cannot work anything out. The place that belongs to imagination and dreaming is taken by some external information.
We all are used to the following phrase: "Every person is a unique individual", but unfortunately nowadays these "individuals" more and more look like one another. That is due to technological progress that stamps the people. They have the same way of thinking, they behave in the same way. Those people who come to big cities from the provinces, from the depths of the country, are of a much greater value as far as their creative potential is concerned, because they bear no stamp of civilisation. At first they feel awkward, become flustered, but then their strong nature prevails and they demonstrate their individuality in everything. They can see what is not seen by us, their actions are often unexpected. That is why Moscow drama schools welcome young people from the provinces so much.
It is not mere chance that a lot of talented writers, artists try to "escape" from big cities with the purpose of creating something, they try to escape from the vanity of vanities. The best masterpieces were created somewhere far from the centres of civilisation. Comfort, which is the result of the technological progress, somehow calms us down, lulls us.
But the lack of comfort is baneful too. If we do not have these things our thoughts are occupied by the desire to have them. Having them becomes the limit of our dreaminess. And when we finally get them we are already too tired to strive for anything else.
Still, the matter is not so simple, because we cannot and we should not stop the technological development. Despite all the above mentioned people are always the same. A person of the 15th century and a person of the 20th century have the same nature. Nowadays we know more, we live longer, but still there are a lot of things left for us to discover. The best poems and novels are not written yet, the best pictures are not painted yet.
Nowadays with science technology and industrialisation it is even easier to realise one's potential. Everyone is given his chance. Our world outlook becomes wider and wider, therefore the horizon of our dreaminess becomes broader. But unfortunately there is a dangerous tendency which aims to rob us of our dreaminess. It is connected with new computer programmes and modern inventions called "virtual reality". It is no more a thing from the science fiction. Such things do exist. A person does not have to dream any more, the dream is given to him, somebody's dream is given to him.
So we can only hope that the strong human nature will prevail and will win a victory over the technological progress. As for me, I am sure of it.
