<ICLE-RU-MOS-0011.2>

While starting my essay I tried to think it over. Though nothing depends on my opinion, which is far from being authoritative, still the question is very acute and important, I would say. You see, nowadays in our country which is overwhelmed with sorrow and grief because of its economic problems, if I can put it like this, very little attention is paid to the ethic and psychological sides of life. I can't say it is unfair, because there is very little which can be done with the 'health' of the society until it gets rid of its deadly foes: inflation and poverty, but it may be too late some day. So let's try to imagine that something has changed positively in our country, though the question raised here is acute all over the world.
A person commits a crime. He is caught, arrested and there is much to be done for the solicitor and the court. At last the Judge's hammer strikes three times and we see the eyes of the criminal - sometimes they are full of fear, horror; sometimes - he looks with the air of embarrassment, and sometimes he considers himself to be guilty but right - so he tries to hold stiff the upper lip! But you see there is one more thing to be added to this chain - its main link - the nature of the crime itself. I would say that a very large proportion of people who come before the court are in some way or other inadequate. They, probably, have never grown up emotionally and react to different situations rather as a child would react to it. And the overwhelming impression is that the people who have got into trouble of this sort do need a certain help in one way or another.
You'll agree with me, I'm sure, being very sympathetic with people who have physical disabilities, we'd better turn to those who have emotional and intellectual shortcomings.
Another criterion that is of great importance is what we call the circumstances in which the crime has been committed. Sometimes people have no way out but to make a forgery or to steal something. It sounds odd, but it happens so that on the way you act depends whether you'll die or not. But let's drop this subject, because it's not typical.
In another situation we deal with juvenile delinquents. These children, being from big families, become aggressive and afterwards antisocial.
In any case when the time to punish a criminal comes, the lawyers should think it over and decide how strict the punishment should be in this particular situation.
I can't call a prison the most effective institution for criminals whom I've written about. In prison they have practically no chance to make good, to correct themselves. On the contrary, they usually become more cruel, hardened. They forget about their souls and they don't see any way out and  in future continue committing crimes. This is the reason why the society should rehabilitate the criminals. The question is how?
