<ICLE-RU-MOS-0020.4>

The word 'feminism' came into frequent use in 1910s. As an ism (an ideology) it presupposed a set of principles and stated a new phase in man-woman relationships.
Feminism is not simple to define. Sometimes it is used to denote all the long efforts to advance women's status, as the Oxford English Dictionary did when it first included the word: "the opinions and principles of the advocates of the extended recognition of the achievements and claims of women, advocacy of women's rights".
Feminist movement emerged to astonish husbands and the world.
The role and status of women have changed in recent decades. Life as a housewife no longer seemed very challenging. They found that marriage reduces their sense of identity. They often have no personal life and were only a piece of machinery that nobody realises the value of unless they stopped. They were no more satisfied with spending their time watching TV with their families. Led by the belief that women should have the same rights as men they were determined to fight for it.
Hence women are divided into three groups: those who are satisfied and have no wish to be emancipated; feminists whose main concern is to gain parity with men and those "boring stay-at-home" creatures, who don't think about such things at all.
If we examine women's position from the feminist point of view, we will see that for years housework and shopping have been considered female domains. Women were expected to do the dull jobs while leadership remained a male prerogative.
Discontent with the routine jobs reserved for women and their place in society in general encouraged many of them to try to change society's prevailing stereotypes of women as weak, passive and dependant individuals who are less rational and more emotional than men. Through active campaigns and criticism the principal goal of better conditions and equal rights seemed to be accomplished. Women's new wide knowledge of values, their new ability to decide for themselves is one of the wonders of the world we live in.
But together with the growing influence of feminists the protest movement is spreading. There is still a tendency to regard the new woman as the enemy of society. It is objected that a woman can combine a role of gainfully employed professional with the one of wife and mother. The opposition insists that a modern woman has disrupted their home. There is no need, they say,  in job satisfaction when a woman, wanted as a perfect wife and mother, can fulfil this role with great success.
Strictly speaking, it is one of the most delicate questions of today. The fact is that to some extent every housewife is a woman and every woman is a housewife. Taking it into consideration, we can ask: is it necessary to make the famous choice between marriage and career? If we contrast the frazzled and frustrated housewife to the woman who has outside interests and a salary of her own, who is eager to come home to her children and husband at the end of the business day, the result will certainly be in favour of the latter.
The problem is that eager for revenge ardent feminists might have probably gone to extremes and the situation turned against them. They are unreasonably regarded as monsters concerned only with their sex rights and financial independence.
The modern woman's decision to work outside the home is not perhaps a momentous one on the woman's part; it is forced on her by man-made system. Women have been economically oppressed for such a long period of time that their wish to be financially independent is perfectly understandable. They had a sort of inferiority complex over making money. For the sense of victory it would give them they want to make it themselves.
But in spite of this for many of them marriage and career are not either / or propositions. Every woman wants a family as well as a career.
Feminist movement has at least one disadvantage. It not only gave more opportunities to women, it inspired them to try and change their role in society. And the problem that immediately appeared was that men were unable to cope with the new woman image.
Peaceful coexistence requires flexibility. But men, once got used to a woman being of secondary importance, cannot change their mind so quickly. They can identify a woman either as an equal with the same rights - and then for no apparent reason women are treated without any sign of politeness and respect - or as the fair sex whom they would love to protect and - own.
Thus for a great majority of women there is no opportunity for both realisations and they are faced with a dilemma that they have to solve - the dilemma of choice. And any case in which they successfully combine their new aims with the old good role of woman as mother and wife is the result of a considerable departure from the traditional and still typical situation of women's cause.
It remains an open-ended question whether feminists have done more harm to the cause of women than good or the other way round. Everybody looks at this problem from his personal point of view and has his own answer.
But judging from the results it is clear that a great effort has been made, and although after centuries of neglect of the role of woman our society was not ready for such radical changes, the result is obvious. And let us hope that with time passing we shall see the situation balanced, men - pacified, women - happy, and feminists - accepted.
