<ICLE-RU-MOS-0008.2>

It is common knowledge that there is too much information in our current life. People simply do not have enough time to examine what is truth and what is a lie. Others try to derive benefit from such a situation. They tell half-truth, substitute their personal ideas for the real ideas, convince people that only they are right and only they should be followed by.
A century ago it was easy to do with the help of religion. It could happen because not every person truly believed in God, some simply followed the majority. The word had a magical power, especially if the speaker was a beloved priest, who was more intelligent than others and who always knew how to convince people. In this sense religion was really the opium of the masses, which made people forget about their own problems and made them convinced by the words of the priest.
The word has become much less important since the invention of the television. People prefer television because it enables them to see as well as hear what is happening. And it is quite clear that it is much easier for politicians and businessmen to advertise their ideas by announcements on television when they try to win people round by hook or by crook.
Sometimes a real tragedy happens when  a business company or a  government crashes. People's ideals are ruined. And not always only ideals. Some people lose everything: money, social positions, families, houses, friends.
Of course I do not mean to say that every advertisement is useless or even harmful. We can always learn a lot of interesting and useful information, worth people's attention. The fact is that we should be more careful with all sorts of information we gain through television.
Different television programmes have gradually become part of our everyday's life. People spend a great deal of time watching television. Some people watch one programme, and then they are tempted to watch the next one as well, when perhaps they ought to be doing something else. In this sense television is also a kind of 'opium', because it is much easier to sit or to lie and watch television, than to do anything else, where our intellectual or physical forces should be used.
More intelligent people, however, choose their programmes very carefully. They find out what they really want to watch by studying the printed programmes, and do not allow themselves to waste too much time watching merely light entertainment. In such cases television gains acceptance as a communications medium.
Some years ago there were a lot of interesting films on television. Movies, or films, have been an integral part of our culture throughout the twentieth century. At first there were silent films, then the great era of sound pictures arrived. Films were very different: films about history and adventures, gangsters and heroes, about everyday's life and alienation of youth. And film-production was a real art. It began with an idea. And it was not only the writer's imagination which was so important, it was also the hard work of the artists.
Films were for adults and little children preferred the animated world of puppets and pictures. The animated cartoon is a wonderful world of imagination which gives children so many moments of pleasure. The recent cartoon films were also very useful for  children in spite of the fact that they were all about quite common and simple things: honesty, friendship, love, the beauty of nature, the power of kindness, sympathy, and courage.
But recently large film companies have been on  decline. Many of the major studios have either closed down or focused on the production of films for television or television series which often have no idea at all.
Critics claim now that the golden age of television occurred in the 1950's. And nowadays various fads have swept the television scene: westerns, doctor and lawyer shows, cops-and-robbers series, rural comedies. Sports coverage of baseball, golf, football, television games, evening talk shows are currently in vogue. And films are full of cruelty and violence, the presentation of which on television might lead young people to regard violence as acceptable behaviour, which should never happen.
In spite of all these facts television is a major factor in our life. Television programmes give us a good rest. Our modern life is too difficult and quick and there are a lot of problems. And sometimes we need simply a minute for doing nothing but watching television, when we forget everything unpleasant and begin to follow the thoughts of the film's characters, though they are not always very interesting and clever. We need to live for a few minutes in this fairy tale with such  naive problems. And it is so comfortable to sit on the sofa at home and to watch television.
Unfortunately some people prefer such kind of life for every day. They think, if it is so simple and comfortable to watch television, then why should they read books, go to the opera or to the theatre. Now the situation with theatres is very difficult. Audiences have lost interest and theatres are unwilling to produce new operas. To see his opera on the stage is but a dream for a great many modern composers. That is the main reason why we know so little about modern music and composers, books and writers.
I am perfectly convinced that television should become an art again as well as the theatre. It fully depends on the audiences. People should be much more careful in choosing television programmes to watch. Then television will stop to be the opium of the masses and be only a medium for advertising and will be a brilliant medium for getting information about our modern life.
