<ICLE-RU-MOS-0005.5>

When we think about money the first idea that occurs to us is the great variety of opportunities that it might give us. And the second idea that comes to our mind is the fact that money has to be earned so that it is your own. Although it is very nice when money «falls on you from the sky», I mean those rare cases when a person gets money without any effort. I think that money helps a lot in understanding a person's character. If you want to know a person better you should notice how he or she spends his or her money.
Having a big sum of money we can do many good as well as bad deeds, because as people differ, so do the goals which their money serves. Being well off one would like to give his money to a charity, to poor and sick people; while another would hire a professional killer to murder his competitor. Unfortunately, the second way of investing money seems more popular nowadays. I am sure that money can change the world for the better but on the other hand, it can make it worse depending on which hands the money rests.
Actually, most people think of money as a good thing and this attitude is quite understandable. All people want to be rewarded for the work they do, and this state of things is only natural and just, but there exist such people whose only aim is the making money. They think that their goal is worth any device, they would do anything to become more prosperous. They would forget about their own families, love, and even their soul in order to increase their income. Their own feelings and the feelings of others are not at all important for them. They weigh the value of people's lives in money. They do believe that it is possible to buy everything for money including people and their feelings such as friendship, love, devotion, honesty, etc. And here they are greatly mistaken, because these are the components of the immaterial, invaluable world of people's relationships and spiritual connections.
To my mind, there is no money that is worth more than a happy smile and a kind look.
