<ICLE-RU-MOS-0023.4>

Marx once said that religion was the opium of the masses. If he was alive at the end of the 20th century, he would replace religion with television.
Carl Marx once said: "Religion is the opium of the masses". Why did he say so? As we all know opium is a drug made from the seeds of a poppy. And it is used in medicines that reduce people's pain and make them sleep. But also it is an addictive drug and some people spend their lives waiting for any opportunity to find and  buy it. Opium is illegal in many countries. So it is obvious that we can say that this word "opium" has sustained negative connotation. Why then this word is used for comparison with religion? It is used in the statement  with  the aim of making these two words  interchangeable.
The answer is pretty simple. For Carl Marx religion is the thing to which one can be addicted. Because it lessens  pain like  opium. Of course, not  physical pain but  moral one ( pain of our soul). Besides it shows us in which way we have to spend our time, in which way we have to think. It makes our life much easier because it gives us an explanation of everything and it tells us distinctly what is bad and what is good. What we have to deny and what we have to accept. I think we can say that religion is sometimes a danger to us because like  opium it makes our minds sleep.
But at the same time this is actually exactly what a man needs. It affords us this soft and pleasing consolation most of us are looking for. I would like to adduce Edmund Barke's statement: "man is by his constitution a religious animal". And I think we can easily agree with the words of the famous British politician.
For  most  people to trust in something, to have a strong belief in something, to have some religious orientation is as vitally important as to breathe. Religion is like  oxygen for us. We can not live without either of them. I think it is obvious practically to everyone that religion has a very strong influence on us. Even on those people who say that they do not trust in God. Because at the same time they usually doubt whether they are right or not. Even when they are absolutely convinced that God does not exist they still think over religious problems.
Our belief has much in common with the fear of being lost, of being entirely alone in this life. It also has much in common with this strong desire to find some support in this life. And before the first TVsets appeared in our rooms the religion was the best consolation for the millions of people. But when we've got the possibility to watch TV we immediately understood that TV is also a very efficient consolation for us now. Television helps us to solve a lot of different problems even without leaving our rooms - we've just forgot about them or understood that they are not as great as the problems of the main characters in all these countless thrillers and soap-operas. We felt that we are not so lonely in our rooms as we had been before TVsets appeared in them. Life looks much easier when you watch TV. Besides in so many programs we receive ready-made solutions to our questions that we nearly failed to answer. We spend so much time watching TV and waiting for the right answers to any problem that television appears to be an opium for us like religion was before.
Of course TV gave us an opportunity to learn something new about different countries and the way people live there and cope with their problems. Even apart from being a universal treatment for all kinds of soul wounds it makes a very trendy person of us. Watching TV we find out what kind of music is popular now, what clothes modern designers advise us to wear this season, what new has Hollywood made. Besides we shouldn't forget about commercials which also make our life easier because they prompt us what would be better for us to choose amongst all these types of washing powder, tooth-paste, home appliances and etc, etc. Also  television is a device that gives us an opportunity to enjoy the company of people we would never have in our home including famous politicians, screen-stars, singers.
So we have to agree that we spend too much time watching TV. It has it's good and had sides. But the main problem is that television is now really the opium of the masses and that is why I think if Carl Marx were alive now he would replace religion worth television in his statement that" religion is the opium of the masses".
