<ICLE-RU-MOS-0010.3>

It is true that TV is a great force in the world. Nobody will deny that it has an almost magic power today. Television can unite millions of people in a common emotion. Television is believed to give people an adequate impression of what is going on in the world, it is supposed to widen our outlook on the world around us. It plays an important role in people's lives and it's essential to speak about its advantages and drawbacks. TV is often said to keep us informed about current events, allows us to follow the latest developments in science and politics and offers us an endless series of programmes both instructive and educating. The most distant countries and the strangest customs are brought right into the sitting-room.
It could be argued that radio performs this service as well, but on TV everything is much more immediate, much more real. Television is invaluable for those people, who prefer to see the events, not just hear about them. Television programmes gather big audiences. Apart from their entertainment value , they provide useful topics of conversation. Television helps us to relax after a hard day's work. Besides it's undoubtfully a great comfort for lonely people.
There are many arguments for and against TV. The poor quality of some programmes is often criticised. There are some films which we can hardly regard as worth seeing. Mainly this can be applied to those endless, tiresome serials, which have already become part of our daily life. For me they are incredibly tedious and practically intolerable. I believe an average viewer can't gain much from watching them. Turnings of the plot, the end of the action can be easily foretold. Besides all the characters are neatly divided into positive and negative ones. We are all aware of course of the impossibility of meeting such people in our real life. By the way W.S. Maugham considered a human being to be a mixture of good and evil and he added that there is more evil than good in the man's character.
Still those soap operas have won immense popularity among our population. The main reason for that is , perhaps, the following one : a substantial majority of TV viewers believe that while watching these serials they tend to forget about their own hardships and problems, to abstract from dull life and drab reality. Besides the characters are dressed in the latest fashion clothes and the interior is beautiful - so all this also cannot help attracting the viewer's attention. There can be no doubt that during the past hundred years television as well as the radio ,and the cinema have made great changes in the entertainment with which people are in the habit of filling their free time. A hundred years ago people succeeded in entertaining themselves much better than they do now. Gathering together they were fond of talking , playing cards or other games, reading aloud to each other or went out shooting or walking together. They were not afraid of singing a little or playing a musical instrument. Most of them didn't play very well , but they could amuse themselves and their friends. Conversing was an art, amusing conversation could keep people happy for hours.
Nowadays all our free time is given to television. People begin to forget the art of conversation. They sit glued to the television screen instead of visiting their friends or relatives.
Nowadays people have got used to being entertained by professionals. They prefer listening to the greatest singers of the world on the radio rather than to their close friends. We take every opportunity of seeing some of the best players in our country instead of playing football with players who are not very good at it.
People are becoming more and more lookers and listeners and less and less doers and talkers. This can be described as the impact of television on people's psychology and behaviour. Many children no longer read books. This will seriously affect their performance in higher forms, for reading is the key to all higher study and needs constant practice. Television may lead to poor health , through rushed meals , lack of sleep , lack of exercise, eyestrain.
There is great danger. The TV screen has a terrible almost physical force. We get so used to it that it begins to dominate our lives. A friend of mine told me the other day that his TV set had broken down and he and his family had suddenly found that they had more time to do things and that they actually began to talk to each other again.
I'd like to draw your attention to some political aspect which is connected with television. With the help of television the ruling circles constantly impose their views on the population. In other words, TV is one of the means of brain-washing. It can even develop an outlook if a person doesn't have a critical attitude towards reality.
Does television corrupt or instruct children? There is no uniformity of opinion on that question. I think that we must realise that TV in itself is neither good nor bad. It is the uses to which it is put that determine its value to society.
