<ICLE-RU-MOS-0017.2>

It must be noted that television plays a rather important part in our daily life. Millions of people watch TV in the evening. Their favourite programmes are news, documentary films, educational programmes, concerts, plays.
The daily news programme called 'Time' is very popular, because there are reports, interviews with people of different nations and ages, news from industry, reports from other countries, foreign news. 'The traveller's club' is another regular television programme, which is watched by many people.
It is extremely important to understand, however, that television cannot replace religion, which is practised by many people who attend church services regularly.
One cannot get rid of the impression that our life looks like a big railway station, unfortunately ( it is very difficult for many people to live and survive in our mad world). There is the continuous movement around us, the excitement, the gaiety of people going away or waiting to meet friends. There are also the shouts of porters as they pull luggage along the long platforms to the waiting trains, the huge crowds at the booking-office, those who are hungry and thirsty hurrying to many different places.
If really worries me that being in a hurry we don't pay enough attention to each other and don't think about those who live by us. It seems to me that the only thing which can help one to be kind is religion, a firm belief in God, our Creator. Television, on the contrary, is merely a kind of amusement.
There are many arguments, however, for and against television. It is absolutely clear that some people can't live a day without a TV set, because it is a comparatively cheap source of information.
Many people at the same time think that television is one of the worst inventions the man had ever made. It occupies all our spare time, we rush home to be in time for this or that programme.
Of course, some reservations must be made. Nothing is purposeless, there is always a certain aim to be achieved while watching TV. It is important to understand that it enables people who live far away from cultural centres to watch theatre productions, concerts, music and drama competitions, international sport events and so on.
Unfortunately, some children spend more time in front of TV sets than in front of their teachers. I have come to the conclusion that children should be taught what programmes to watch. Most educational programmes are really good.
What I dislike is too much violence on TV. I think that children become indifferent when people are killed. It can also be argued that TV is awfully bad for people's eyes.
Television is very much like a drug - people get addicted to certain programmes.
Being addicted to TV is very much the same as being addicted to a book. As one English authors once wrote: 'Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested'.
This quotation tells us how to read books of different kinds.
The same is true of television. Otherwise stated, most travel programmes are to be 'tasted' it's enough to dip into them and watch bits of them. If one is fond of crime stories, one probably swallows them and then there are programmes that are to be watched slowly and carefully, chewed and digested.
Some people think that television is the opium of the masses. It seems to me that it is a prejudiced view.
It is extremely important to understand that while television should not replace religion, the latter should not replace TV either.
