<ICLE-RU-MOS-0025.4>

Is there still place for dreaming and imagination in our modern world?
Some people say, that in the present-day world, dominated by science technology and industrialisation, there is no longer a place for dreaming and imagination. This statement seems true for many contemporary societies, especially in the Western countries, where the development of technology has reached a very high level. Everywhere they go, people are surrounded with various types of electronic equipment, computers, technical devices. Machines do all kinds of things for us: they cook our food, wash our clothes, talk to us, amuse us, inform us, count, read and write. Our children prefer computer games to playing with each other. There are less and less things left that we have to do ourselves. Sometimes even thinking is done for us by machines. It is not surprising, therefore, that people become lazy in their minds and souls.
Many societies, especially in the countries of well developed industry, enjoy a high level of economic production. Unfortunately, the psychology of people in these countries becomes that of a consumer. Financial security and material well-being are things that many people dream of in the first place. It is no surprise, that people become more pragmatic, more concerned with their future career. Since the competition on job markets is very high these days and there exists a real threat of unemployment, young people have to think more about professional orientation than about romantic relationships, for example. They want to receive good education, so that they could make more money in the future, have nice house, a fast car and be able to buy what they want. They choose their major not according to their inclinations and liking, but according to the chances of finding a good job that pays well. Also, one has to work very hard to be successful in one's field, so not too much time is left for dreaming or creativity. It seems that nowadays we have not dreams, but objectives.
Nevertheless, the picture should not appear so gloomy. Though what has been said above is true, still it would be wrong to say that people in the modern world have stopped dreaming and that there is no place left for imagination. Dreaming is very important, if not essential, part of human nature. It is absolutely impossible for people to live without imagining things, without illusions. We are always searching for ideal to make our life meaningful and complete. Human mind and human soul can not deal with the hardships of life all the time. One should give oneself a break and escape from severe reality once in a while. People are seldom satisfied with what they have and keep imagining a better life.
There can be no doubt that dreaming and imagination still occupy an important place in our lives - but they are taking different forms now. These days, as ever before, people try to convey their innermost hopes and dreams in creative work. If we take even a brief look at the modern art - the books, that have been written in the last decades, the paintings, music and theatres of the recent years - we will immediately see, that they reflect the work of imagination of modern people, their desperate search of ideal and beauty.
The same refers to the cinema - a relatively young artistic genre, which has become so popular today, that it is definitely taking over all other kinds of art. Its immense popularity is to a great degree due to the fact, that cinema, like no other art, creates an illusion of reality and allows our imagination to work without limits. Any most impossible and fantastic situation you could dream of - a trip to the past on the time-machine or a dangerous expedition to Africa, a flight to Mars on a spaceship or an encounter with vampires - everything is possible in a movie, just as if it happened with you personally.
Even modern technology itself is used to create new illusions of reality. With the help of computer graphics and the special effects the movies become more and more impressive, as well as more and more things that before we could only see in our most unrealistic dreams, now become "real" and we can see them with our own eyes. To say nothing about computer games, which give you a chance to be whoever you like and do whatever you choose to do.
In all times and ages people created some imaginary worlds to be opposed to the everyday routine, the worlds, where their most precious dreams could come true. Therefore, it doesn't really matter if it is sixteenth, nineteenth or twentieth century - people will keep dreaming and there will always be a place for imagination in this world.
