<ICLE-RU-MOS-0003.5>

We live in a very changeable century.During it there were many wars and revolutions.The politics struggled for there own and there state interests.They began wars by signing a document and the soldiers were to solve the "world problems".Millions of innocent people were killed.I do not mean only children and women. Young soldiers, called to military service were not guilty also.That's why the question of professional army is important in the contemporary discussions. There are many reasons for such kind of troops to be practicised.The two main ones should be mentioned.Both of them are very important.They are measured in different categories and that's why it is impossible to put one of them on the first place.
One is measured in lifes of our children.If the military service exists,the majority of young men should serve in army for some period of time (usually 5-24 months). It is obvious,that in our century of high technologies and computers the soldier should not be only well-trained physically but also taught many things.It is impossible to teach the profession of soldier in some months.The result is,that when such soldiers begin to fight,they cannot even defend themselves.The majority of them are killed or wounded in the first days of war,having no idea what for. Many women are left without their sons and they also do not know why.
The second reason is measured in money and the reputation of a state.As any profession this one needs skills to reach a successful result.Company might employ an uneducated worker and pay him less money then to a professional one.In this case the efficiency will not be high and the profit also.The same is with army,military service provides it with a "cheap meat", while a well-taught army can manage to do much more and with less losses. The problem is that only a few countries are able to have an army of hirelings. It is expensive to train a soldier, to teach him and then to pay him rather big money.Only a state with economic stability and richness can maintain such a body.It should be mentioned that political situation is very important. In Russia, for example, the professional army can become dangerous, used by any ambitious person who has a great desire to get power.
The last thing, which will be mentioned, is an alternative service. Military service gives man an opportunity to feel himself a part of his country. There is a way to keep such ideological category of the idea-it is to introduce an alternative service. It exists now in some states. It would be very useful for young man to learn what is duty and humanism. Not any person can be a good soldier but there are many other ways to help the country in a peaceful time.
