<ICLE-RU-MOS-0002.2>

Criminality arose with the appearance of human society. The problem of punishment of criminals existed even in rather primitive societies. The forms of criminality and the attitude of people towards it changed throughout the history of the development of mankind. The philosophic nature of the problem is that the criminal was always a member of human society.  The imprescriptible principle of a group of judicious beings is humanism. But society had never managed to reconcile itself to the criminality as social  feature. And was always thinking about the ways and methods of suppression. The laws punishing the criminals permanently improved as well as the forms of punishment and rehabilitation. But still the excellent society with no criminality at all never existed in the whole history of mankind.
All  history of mankind is marked by the attempts to improve laws about criminals and the punishment. We have to assume that the methods of punishment developed rather conservatively. And in principle they still remain the same. At the beginning of human history society tried to punish criminals immediately - to cut off the thief's hand, to quarter, to hang. With the development of  civilisation the ways of punishment were becoming more and more various and even human.
The isolation of the criminal from the healthy part of the society was the main principle. That is how prisons and other means of isolation appeared. We have to assume that the methods are the same nowadays. Of course, super modern prisons exist now. The idea that criminals should be rehabilitated seems to be rather reasonable and up-to-date. But the situation in different countries is very different. Even very controversial opinions appear about how the prisoners should be treated. In Sweden, for example, criminals are mollycoddled. One of the most well-known prisons is Easterocker. In order to get into this prison criminals stand in a queue for a long time. If they want to stay in this prison for the whole period of their imprisonment they have to sign a contract. They promise they will not take drugs, drink alcohol, they will study or work. Every month prisoners have a vacation. They leave prison and go home to see their family and friends. But even in prison their living and housing conditions are very favourable. Every prisoner has his or her own cell, which looks like a usual comfortable room. There are a TVset, tape-recorder, video, books, posters on the walls and separate convenient toilet. Prisoners are treated not like criminals and anti-social elements but like usual people.
An  average local prison in Sweden is not  much worse. In this country prisoners are usual people. They have an opportunity to continue their usual normal life, but they don't want to commit  a crime. In this case we can say that they are not punished but society is really trying to rehabilitate them. But in other countries laws are still isolating criminals, not rehabilitating them.
We think it is not the best way to solve the problem of criminality. Contemporary laws put  criminals in position of strangers, who are rejected by 'normal' people. It is the main contradiction between the struggle with criminality and an attempt to eradicate it at all. People who spend most of their lives in prison are automatically rejected by the society of 'normal' people.
Now we face lots of global problems in economy, ecology and politics. The characteristic feature of our time is the rise of new forms of criminality. And this problem needs a  more profound and deep analysis. The methods of suppressing criminality are outdated and new psychological-philosophic approaches are necessary.
Human methods which will give criminals a chance to become full-valued members of the society must be put forward.
The social and moral, mental conditions are different in different countries. So it is not possible to produce the common law for different societies. But I think that society must try to create good social living conditions for people, which will prevent them from committing a  crime. In most criminal cases it is the society, who must take  the responsibility. In every case there must be an individual approach to the  criminal. Because in every case there is a certain pattern. A very large proportion of the people who come before the court are in some way or rather inadequate. They've never fully grown up emotionally. They react to the situation rather as a child would react to it. They often form the impression of people who really do need some help, some treatment and not punishment at all.
