<ICLE-RU-MOS-0027.4>

Victor Hugo was right when he said that nature is calling out but humanity refuses to pay heed. Nowadays we come across enormous problems. These are ecological problems. Problems of our environment. This is our immediate setting and we definitely should take care of it.
On the other hand, we need to realise: it is impossible to preserve nature, it is impossible to take heed of its calling out. Why? Because even if there were millions of those Green-Peace activists around, still there would be one who will  go against them, openly or secretly. Man is man. We are too selfish. We are too evil. Greed is much more powerful in us than love to nature. We swallow up forests, we consume jungles, we devastate seas and oceans, let alone lakes and rivers, we pollute and destroy atmosphere. Now we are going to explore ( and actually are exploring) outer pace in order to ...  what? Doubtful though, that something good will came out.
This, however, is not the whole story. This is what we see around  us today. This is what makes some people be puzzled. This is what they do their best to mend.
But there is another group of people.  Quite a special folk. They do as little as they can to take part in this paranoia of self-destruction. At the same time they don't cherish any hopes of keeping everything intact. Their hopes are of another order of things. They realise this all will soon come to an end. This old earth with its ozone-layer-holed sky will be rolled up and the new earth and the new heaven will appear. Can you imagine, the sun will be as much as seven times brighter compared to its present state. Don't worry, we won't burn down! Everything will be taken care of! No environmentalists needed! No protectionalists of any kind! No "Green Peace"! There will be the New Jerusalem, not a physical city, but a heavenly,  spiritual city. This will be the mingling of God with  His redeemed, sanctified, transformed metabolically, glorified men. This will be God's masterpiece, His very expression, His longed-for expression. This is what He's doing  now while people try and research environment and languages. Hugo's words can be understood in another way, too. People don't take heed of nature and that's why come all their problems because if they don't take heed of nature they don't take heed of God "for from the world's creation the invisible things of Him  are perceived, being understood through what has been made, both His eternal power and divinity".
