<ICLE-RU-MOS-0003.3>

Humanity has a long history that lasts hundreds and thousands of years. A lot of things have happened to man during those centuries. Different nations rose and fell , civilisations flourished and then disappeared, rulers came and left . People changed their attitudes, traditions, culture, but there have always been some things that remained unchanged. One of them is man's feelings about money.
Money has always been in the centre of man's attention irrespective of where he lives, what job he has or how old he is. If you stop a passer-by in a Moscow street and ask him : " What do you need to be happy ?" - he would probably say something like a better salary , a new flat, or a car, or a washing machine. To cut a long story short , he would need money to be able to get all those things.
As statistics says, all over the world people are eager now to spend more and more time doing their jobs. They are willing to become ' workhorses ' and ' workaholics ' . They kill themselves physically and spiritually, neglect their families and friends in order to achieve only one goal - to make more money. Of course, living in the atmosphere of hunting for money man is tempted to think that a little bit bigger sum can solve all his problems; that money is a panacea, a remedy for all ' diseases and ills ' in his life.
But doesn't it seem inconsistent ? On the one hand, we say that making money became one of the strongest desires of people's hearts. It is considered the way to be happy. On the other hand , we still sing the song , stating that money is the root of all evil. How is it that these two contradictory statements coexist peacefully in our minds ? Why is one and the same thing viewed upon as the best and the worst simultaneously ?
There are a lot of different sources where to look for the answer to these questions . Let us turn to one of them, that has influenced the history of the whole mankind - i.e. the Bible. Being the word of God, this supernatural book contains not only spiritual treasures. To those who love the truth and the search for it , the Bible says a lot about archaeology, history, ethnography, natural sciences , etc. It is a very practical book that teaches man how to live this life so that on  the very Last Day to enter the God's Kingdom. As it is obviously seen , money is a very important part of our life. That is why so many pages of the Scriptures are devoted to it.
No doubt, everybody is familiar with the story of a rich man who refused to follow Jesus, described in a gospel of Matthew 19:19-30. It is very often quoted on different occasions because it really explains the biblical approach to the ' money problem ' .
The man came to Jesus and asked, what he should do to have life for ever. Jesus answered : " Obey the commands ", and then added : " If you want to be perfect , then go and sell all the things you own. Give the money to the poor people. If you do this you will have a rich treasure in Heaven . Then come and follow me ! ".The man who was very rich turned and left. Jesus said to his followers : " I tell you the truth. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a man, who is rich, to enter the Kingdom of God " .
It is very hard for a man to understand and accept this stern statement. That is why this passage was interpreted in so many different ways . At first sight , it may seem that Jesus is expressing exactly the same point of view that the old song does. He considers money to be the reason of spiritual death. But some other places of the Bible say something completely different. For example, in the book of Proverbs we read : " If a person is rich, then his wealth will bring him many friends. But if a person is poor, all his friends will leave him. " (19:4). Or in chapter 20:13 : " If you love to sleep, then you will become poor. But use your time working and you will have plenty to eat." Or in chapter 14:24 : " Wise people are rewarded by wealth. But foolish people are rewarded by foolishness ".
These verses make it absolutely clear that in the eyes of God there is nothing wrong with being rich . It is much better to be wealthy than poor. Money itself cannot make any difference in one's life or heart. But love for money can. The sad truth is that people , trying to become rich, start using all kinds of ungodly and dishonourable ways to get what they want. Those who want to become rich , bring temptations to themselves. They are caught in a trap ( 1- Timothy 6-9 ). They begin to want many foolish things that will hurt them. As the result, they end up with crime, murder, stealing, lie and they forget about God.
" No servant can serve two masters at the same time. The servant will hate one master and love the other." ( Luke 16 ) . You cannot serve God and Money at the same time. The rich man was serving and loving Money. He was honest and admitted that he couldn't follow Jesus , being at the same time a servant of Mammon, a pagan god of wealth and money.
Wealthy people can easily become too self-confident. They begin to think that their money can buy everything and they do not need God's help any more . In their hearts there is no more room for love of God, the only thing that can bring forgiveness of man's sins. Spiritual blindness of rich people made James exclaim : " You rich people, listen ! Cry and be very sad because much trouble will come to you. Your riches will rot and be worth nothing " .
The old song was not exactly right. It is not money , but love for money that is the root of all evil.
