<ICLE-RU-MOS-0022.2>

Conscription, which simply means compulsory military service, is a very controversial issue. People constantly argue for and against it. Its supporters say that it gives young men a sense of discipline in a world where the young increasingly have too much freedom. They say it helps young men, who perhaps were tied to their mother's apron-strings at home, to stand on their own feet and encourages them to develop initiative, since a young soldier must make his own decisions and cannot rely on his parents to tell him what to do. It is even considered that a boy can become a real man with a strong, tough character who can endure everything and withstand the calamities of our contemporary life only if he was a soldier (even if he didn't have to carry out his duties being a participant of some war-events).
Of course, these reasons are ponderable enough but there exists  another, opposite point of view. Opponents of compulsory military service and I myself argue that an army of conscripts  is unsatisfactory, amateur one, since one cannot expect reluctant young man to perform war-time duties efficiently after only a year or two of training. A war must be fought by a professional army, and soldiers should all be volunteers.
The latest and the most vivid example is our war in Chechnya. From the very outset I like many other people was against it but it is not the theme of my issue. What I'm talking about is that our army entirely consisted of boys who scarcely finished school. A great part of them couldn't even hold the gun in their hands. No wonder that losses were great. For professional soldiers war-time duty is work which is supposed to be carried precisely  and more often than not it is.
Compulsory military service for all young men also causes disruption to the education and careers of the young, since it creates a gap just when they should be strudying or starting work. There is a great deal of examples when boys give up their studies after the army. They are too far from their previous occupations and only a little part of them have a desire to graduate from the university and to get  a diploma in order to be a specialist. So we come to a cul-de- sac when we don't  have professionals either in army, on the one hand, or in science or other disciplines, on the other.
Finally there is the problem of the young man who is against war on principle. In other words he is a pacifist. I know that in Britain a person who refuses to do military service is called a conscientious objector. If his reasons are accepted, he may be obliged to perfom other, non-military duties but it does not come about if military service is voluntary.
