<ICLE-RU-MOS-0005.3>

When Antoine de Saint-Exupéry ( 1900-1944 ) wrote his famous  " Le Petit Prince " ( 1943 ) , the World War Two was at its height. However, this did not prevent him from creating wonderful characters of the Little Prince , who was fond of watching the sunrise when he was upset , of the wise Fox , who taught that it is only the heart that can see the truth and that the most important things cannot be seen by the eyes, and of the narrator who knew for sure that there is a star in the sky where his little friend lives and takes care of a lamb and a beautiful rose . "Look at the sky. Ask yourself whether that rose is alive or, perhaps, the lamb ate her ? And you will see that everything will change and no adult man will understand how it is important " People change outwardly , they pretend to look sophisticated, business-like, busy and practical, but at the bottom of their souls they long for peace and calmness, having no idea of how to achieve it .
The irony of human life is that we live in anticipation of something extraordinary, of making new discoveries and of " having the world and the sky all to ourselves " . We see life as a battle. We fight, we lose and win, and one day we suddenly realise that all our deeds are in vain, because the world we live in is cruel, unbearable and unfair. ( And strangely we forget to mention that this world does not exist by itself independent of our will and actions ). Thus the time of despair , disillusion and dejection comes . And people long to run away from reality to the Kingdom of Beauty and Poetry, Dreaming and Imagination, to those spheres and realms where the soul could have its rest .
"....For who would bear the whips and scorns of time, Th'oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely, The pangs of disprized love, the law's delay, The insolence of office, and the spurns That patient merit of th'unworthy takes...."
It is the greatest error to think that our modern world ( " dominated by science technology and industrialisation " ) is particularly deprived of dreaming and imagination, or , in other words, that there is no longer a place for any of them. Were people in Dante's or Shakespeare's time more imaginative ? I doubt that. In fact, it is not a matter of society or a period of time at which one lives, it is a matter of one's own world view . There have always been and still are people who light the way to Heaven , to Poetry and Imagination, who are able to see the unseen, who are not afraid of facing the truth, who know for sure that it is the soul that matters and is eternal .
The conflict between the life of imagination and its ' practical opposite ' , between poetry and prose of life is always there presented in different forms, but it is an integral part of every society.
During the Greek-Percian war the Percians were destroying the beautiful statues of Acropolis, but the Greeks buried them as if they were people. In the Middle ages Dante, Leonardo de Vinci, Boticelly and Petrarka created their masterpieces when the heretics were being burnt on fires. Russia was under the Tartar-Mongolian yoke when Andrey Rublev started painting the icons.
People tend to regard the time they live in as the most difficult, cruel and violent . But if we look at the history of mankind we'll hardly find there any ' golden age ' . Nevertheless people always aspired to the sky, they dreamed and tried to make dreams come true ; they saw a mystery in the obvious and the obvious became a mystery for them. Imagination is the veil through which people see infinity .
I am absolutely convinced that it will be like that for ever , till the end of days, no matter how much our world is going to change .
