<ICLE-RU-MOS-0021.4>

If we open any newspaper and look at the job opportunities column we will immediately notice that the main requirement for any more or less serious occupation is a university degree. Sometimes even the subject in which the degree was conferred is not specified. This appears to be the first and the simplest argument in favour of university degrees in general.
But let us first answer the question, what is the reason for such a limitation? There are plenty of young people who do not, for some reason or other, study at universities, but get their professional experience only by practice.
For example, one can become a good computer-engineer without studying  computer science at university. Such people are quite often very good specialists and they can no doubt compete with the university graduates. But if we look more closely into the matter, we will see that university studies give young people a great number of advantages. Firstly, the pay for the work of their "uneducated" competitors will always be lower ( the point that can hardly be ignored) and, secondly, the knowledge of the subject will be much more narrow than that of the university students.
An ideal student should learn as much as possible in his field of study, but university education gives him the opportunity to get acquainted with the neighbouring subjects as well. This allows him to find interesting, non-standard solutions in the different kinds of situations. Apart from that students learn to think logically, to write essays and papers, to speak in public. All these skills are considered to be of great importance in the modern world.
It is true that while studying at universities students get mostly theoretical knowledge which they either can or can not put into practice afterwards. But in actual fact there is no contradiction between theory and practice, for every theory is provided with examples and one could never become very good at practice unless he has an idea of the theoretical side of the matter in question.
Unfortunately most theoretical courses do not include up-to-date information on the subject. (This has always been one of the greatest problems of Soviet education institutions. Today the Russian universities lack modern equipment and latest scientific publications). Students would not have to face a lot of things that are completely new to them only if they decide to continue their studies as postgraduates and after that stay at the university as lecturers or teachers. But if the former students choose some other occupation they must be prepared to learn something new every day and practice different skills they had never heard of at the university, in other words to acquire proficiency.
University studies should therefore be considered a kind of introduction to the professional progress or a kind of foundation on which a building of professionalism can be erected with the help of experience. It is impossible to become a doctor without studying medicine at university. Thank God!
