<ICLE-RU-MOS-0020.1>

The topic of the composition is very difficult to cover in a short essay. In my opinion the level of higher education in a country is a matter of great concern of every sober-minded citizen. Therefore if the policy-makers and MP's want their country to be or become prosperous and survive in this severe world they have to scrutinize thoroughly the present system of education and to improve it or to develop a new one. As for me I graduated from the Kiev High Air Force Engineering College in 1984 and got a diploma of radio engineer, thus I know nothing but a little about the Modern Universities. Trying to recall those days of studing now I am inclined to think that the system of higher education was great. It is true is has some disadvantages, but it was one of the best in the world. Higher education here was professional. There were no schools comparable to western liberal arts colleges. Students entered a higher school to prepare for a definite field. There were one to three leading schools in each field of knowledge and science. Thus if a capable boy or girl wants to become an authority in the chosen subject he or she should try to enter a certain University.
When a cadet I was eager to learn because I knew my college was the best prestige in the Air Force. It had a high quality of teaching faculty and research facilities and it accepted only two to three out of every ten who applied. The syllabus was complex and there were some dull and unnecessary courses. Not knowing where we would serve and what we would do we had to study various subjects. That's why our range of knowledge was wide. To my mind it was an advantage and disadvantage simultaneously. It was the disadvantage because we had to know things which we wouldn't ever concern for and it was the advantage because we have got the necessary views or horizon to be a competent avionics engineer. The main thing which makes me to respect my tutors and always remember my college is skill to learn. Only this was enough for me to be ready for the real world.
None of the tutors or universities can prepare anyone for real life because no one knows where he will be tomorrow. Thus a university has to teach a student to be ready to meet reality of the world and to adapt himself independently of where he will be after his graduation.
I had the meeting of alumni in June this year. I met my friends whom I hadn't seen since the graduation. And I was very surprised to learn that even problem students had achieved success in their careers. They could adapt themselves perfectly although they might have known nothing about things they had met but they know the way to study them.
Finally I must confess I can see no reason to oppose that most university degrees are theoretical but I would find it difficult to accept that they don't prepare students for real world.
Nowadays we see a lot of successful businessmen and policy-makers with diplomas of engineers, lawers, and even musicians. Therefore universities degrees are not of very little value. Moreover, why did people create the system of higher education? As far as I remember it was done in the Middle Ages. The university degrees were more theoretical then than they are today. Students had to study the "dead" languages like Latin and Greek, nevertheless they discovered the virus of small-pox and developed the telescope.
So in my point of view the main idea of whether the university prepares students for real life or not is whether they achieve success and make their country richer and more powerful or not.
