<ICLE-RU-MOS-0021.2>

I think the statement 'If Marx was alive at the end of the twentieth century, he would replace religion with television' is quite right. However, no one can tell a real answer to the question whether it is good or bad. It goes without saying that television has its good sides as well as bad sides. For example, why should one go to a theater if he can watch it at home. Instead of going to the cinema one can simply switch on his video, insert a tape - and off you go! It is possible to watch a lot of films at home without leaving it. Isn't that great? As for me, that's exactly what I like about television. If I  have some  free time - I turn on TV. If I do not like one program I can change the channel immediately with remote control in my hand. I do not have to go all the way to a theatre just to watch one film - I have a bunch at home. I think all busy people will agree with me. Having no spare time it is easier to stay at home rather than going to a theater or a cinema. I am not taking into account special occasions, such as: going out with a girl friend to a cinema; sometimes to go with old friends to the theatre does not sound like a bad idea at all or one can kill a lot of spare time doing that.
Of course, there is nothing wrong in watching TV all day long. But on the other hand our lives would be very boring without cinema or theatre. Here is an example: a certain person comes home after work at 5 p.m. He has his dinner, takes a nap, then he turnes on TV. His family gathers together in the room where the TV is. No one talks to each other, no one shares what happened to him during this day because everyone is absorbed in the programme.
Days go by, weeks, months. Pretty soon kids will find themselves grown-up, parents will be quite old by that time. What did they have in their lives? Practically, nothing. TV programmes, hard work. Of course, that was an overstated example, extreme, so to speak. But hand on heart ,sometimes it happens.
I am not saying that going to  the cinema or theatre or elsewhere would change your life drastically. The point is that by going there your life would not be the same. It would change one's daily routine. And that is true. I have seen a lot of happy families where both parents go together to a theatre or a cinema very often. Quite a number of them go to the restaurant no less than 1 day in a week. That automatically means that they do not spend as much time watching TV as the families that do not go out do. Me personally, I prefer to watch TV rather than to go to a cinema or a theatre. And there are some reasons for that. First I do not have much time, secondly I do not like theatre at all. But I do not have anything against those who go to the theatre or cinema regularly. I understand that people are different and we can not be the same.
