<ICLE-RU-MOS-0012.4>

On the basis of my life experience I'd like to remark that the ability of a person to dream and imagine is determined by: first, the level of his education; secondly, the kind of his activity; thirdly, by his material condition; fourthly, by his upbringing and education, or better to say, cultural backgrounds and fifthly, by the hereditary factor.
The higher the level of education is, the larger totality of knowledge a person has; so he can discuss more phenomena and other things. A modern person, who possesses a higher level of education in comparison with a person of the Middle Ages, has a broader informational base for his fantasy.
The kind of activity of a person greatly influences his ability to imagine and dream. It is established by the medical research that a person who is engaged in monotonous work for a long period of time (for example, the work at the conveyor) loses the ability to imagine and dream creatively, for such kind of work requires great attention, concentration and leaves no place for a process of thinking.
On the other hand, in our modern society quite a lot of people are engaged in such kind of activity which is closely connected with the intensified brain work. For example, schoolchildren, students, engineers, scientific workers, physicians, teachers, artists, politicians, economists, managers, etc. It is determined by practice that the higher the level of industrialisation and development of technology in the society is, the less quantity of people is engaged in mechanical monotonous work and the greater quantity of people is occupied with the creative work.
Consequently, it is possible to make the conclusion that in our modern society more people have opportunities to dream and imagine during the work-day on the professional level.
The material condition of people greatly influences the ability of a person to think creatively too. When a person is constantly preoccupied with the necessity to feed and dress his children, his family, he doesn't have any opportunity to get the good education himself and let his children get it. He has no time for rest and he has to spend all his time and strength on seeking  the necessary means to provide for his family. Certainly, such a person has no time and opportunities to dream and imagine.
On the contrary, when a person possesses a certain income, can allow himself to feed well, can give his children a good education, can have a good rest, he has far more opportunities for a creative approach to different problems. The modern industrialised society (Western Europe and USA) provides its citizens with rather high level of life and social support for "not well-to-do" people, in such a way it allows the majority of people to manifest their abilities to dream and imagine. The ability to dream and imagine is innate but it should be developed.
The social environment where a person is grown and brought up is significant in development of his abilities to dream and imagine. It is known that it is easier for the majority of people to acquire knowledge in their young age. A person who was surrounded by talented and intelligent people in his childhood, easily acquires experience of creative thinking. The ability of a person to dream and imagine requires constant improvement and persistent training. It's not by chance that those people often achieve success in life whose upbringing and education allowed to get profound experience of creative thinking. We can often observe such examples: the children of actors become actors themselves, the children of composers - become composers, the children of scientists become scientists, etc. The industrialists society with a highly developed technology allows practically to every person to enlarge extremely his informational base and to obtain the necessary experience of the process of creative work since early childhood. All the people in the world are different. And their creative abilities are different. As a human being is a part of nature, he is to obey the laws  of nature. One of such laws is the law of natural selection. The people who possess better creative abilities, have more chances to survive in the modern world, give a healthy posterity and provide it with high levelled education. As far as the society and its industrialisation develops, the above mentioned law of natural selection functions, the quantity of people that have the inborn ability to dream and imagine increases. By the way, that is one of the reasons of the development of the humanity progress by accelerating tempos.
	Coming to the conclusion, I'd like to sum up and say, that I don't agree with this statement. The higher the level of development of science, technology and industrialisation is, the more opportunities for dreaming and imagination people have, and so the more chances to realise these opportunities.
