<ICLE-RU-MOS-0015.2>

It is commonly assumed that the army is like a mirror of society has are present in its army. It is very important to realise that this is the state of affairs especially in this country, because we have a system of obligatory military service - every 18 years old young man has to pass this examination in life.
After 1985 all problems that existed in soviet army became the subject of a very wide social discussion, which was held on TV and in most of newspapers. It happened because with the beginning of Perestroika and Glastnost people of the Soviet Union knew the truth about the situation in the army, about such things as Afghanistan. This discussion is going on nowadays because today a lot of young men are fighting in civil wars in Chechenya, Georgia, in other places of the exUSSR.
The trouble is not only the fact of the war itself ( although it is extremely serious), but also the nature of taking part in the war. ( Very little percent of soldiers are volunteers in military service). Another issue which is closely connected with the one that was just mentioned, is professionalism in the army.
I think that it is necessary for a young man to go through something which would help him to learn discipline, communicability with people, how to behave in emergency situations. If somebody looks at this idea more or less objectively, he will see all advantages of military service. An ideal army should help boys to become stronger physically and psychologically. But, as I see it, it must not be for such a long time as it is in this country for two years. At present there are different forms of serving in the army. As we have it at Moscow State University and some other colleges and universities young men have to go through the so called part-time training either once a week or during several months in the summer. They are learning the same things as those men in ordinary military service. But students already have a certain mentality, more than that they are studying to use their knowledge, which they have got at high school, for military purposes. This means that they will use that knowledge more properly an their colleagues in the regular army.
As an example we can remember that students of the philological faculty are studying how to use foreign languages in radio communication. They are getting a certain profession, an additional one. And what is more important, students do this as part of their everyday studies. I am sure that such soldiers must be real professionals.
I think that I can only express  my own opinion on that question, because my family was closely connected with the Soviet Army for years. Besides, I faced a lot of problems, connected with it, myself, not a long time ago. After finishing school my boy-friend was called up to military service. We couldn't even imagine what will happen. After the first two weeks he spent there, I visited him and saw with my own eyes all the wild circumstances of soldiers' life. It is not surprising that after two years of such prison people can't save humanism in their souls. Now I understand that the life of soldiers in this country is very similar to that of criminals in prisons.
But this coin can also have another side. Many years ago my father was a student at Moscow Aviation Institute. But he had a dream to become a pilot. And he left the place for a pilots school somewhere in the Ukraine. For 15 years later our family had been travelling around the country. I can't say that it was very interesting for us, but my father became a first class pilot. At last he left the army to study for several years to become a test pilot and now he reached the highest possible results in his profession. And looking at my father I think that only the army that has high class specialists, professionals, can be strong enough to defend our country.
The same thing was said in the middle of 80th by Artiom Borovik (the son of a well-known Russian journalist G. Borovik). He took part in an interesting experiment - he spent some time in the American Army as a soldier. Then he wrote a report for one of our magazines. This comparison opened people's eyes on what we had in fact in the army. Also Borovik showed all the advantages of the American military service which leads people to professionalism on the one hand, and teaches young men to be patriots on the other hand.
Nowadays there exists an alternative military service in this country, and even girls can be volunteers to study military science. And may be this form of the army has its future.
