<ICLE-RU-MOS-0024.4>

Feminism is a term of comparatively recent origin. It designates the motives and ideas that underlie the modern movement in favour of rights for women. It includes the personal and social as well as the political and economic aspects of the movement and has for its object the placing of woman on a complete equality with man.
There can be no doubt that the statement used as the title of a given essay is rather controversial. So-called "women's question" is a highly painful theme. The theory of "eternal femininity" has a lot of supporters in all European countries. Many women try to do their best to be nice and womanly. At the time of Phoma Akvinsky femininity was considered to be  part and parcel of woman's nature. At all times a woman was tender, delicate and incapable of living alone. But during two last decades, followed after the revival of feminism at the beginning of 1970-s, the women won their rights and turned over the old and foggy notion of their social status.
The 19th and 20th centuries brought a revolution in the status and education of women, first sweeping Europe and the USA, then the orient, and reversing ancient judgements of women's aptitudes.
First of all, it was connected with such important problems as the problem of women's education; the right of women to hold property; the right to practice in the professions; the right of women to vote, to hold office, to make contracts; married women's rights in connection with children; rights of women to dissolution of marriage, etc.
In the 19th century, seminary, college and university provided pragmatic proof that girls, like boys, could master the known and explore the unknown. Political liberalism, resting on a naturalistic premise, opened the way to women to participation in government. A woman has acquired a feeling of confidence, self-respect, of opportunity of choice.
Nowadays it's not true anymore that men go out to work and women don't because most working-class women either go out to work or have to go out to work. Moreover, quite a lot of women are breadwinners and bring more money at home. So it's quite clear nowadays that the Latin statement "tola mulier in utero" is not true and actual.
That's why to my mind it's hard to say that all these achievements are the "harm for the cause of women". But on the other hand all the improvements turned out to be something like new duties for women. Most men come home to a house and to a woman where everything is expected. She is expected to do everything for the man: look after the house, bear and rear the children, organise the cooking, the cleaning, tidying, wiping and all the rest of it. Besides, she has to be not only womanly but also modern and has to earn money. The main problem which is bound to arise here is that such situation suits many people. A woman has to keep the pot on the boil, to do her chore, whereas a man wears the breeches at home, because he is afraid of the idea of the man being a pansy. Besides, so-called "moral fall", smoking and drinking women, the weakening of  the maternal instinct, a great amount of  incomplete families-all these are rather unattractive aspects of feminists movement. I don't want to say, of course, that moral, financial and sexual  freedom are the bad things for a woman. I only want to say that too much of liberation and emancipation can give rise to such  a world where we'll have nothing eternal and sacred. Such notions as "family", " maternity " and "love" were  most important during the whole history of mankind. We mustn't confuse freedom and  solitude.
Each woman chooses her own way of life. One tries to have prospects of moving around in her job; the other tries to create a warm and comfortable home. One woman wants to live alone, the other gives birth to love children. This opportunity to choose, I think, is one of the best things which feminism has given to women.
