<ICLE-RU-MOS-0006.4>

As long as I remember myself studying at school or at the Moscow University students have been always complaining about their curriculum. Most of my classmates considered part of their subjects at school absolutely unnecessary: those who we going to continue their studies in natural sciences used to say that they did not need to write essays; those who intended to study Arts after school despised mathematics and chemistry. At the Moscow University many students of the philological faculty specialising in English seriously think that the subject of the history of English is basically useless for their future careers. Still, I believe that there is a world of difference between real education and mere training, aimed at the student's acquiring a set of skills that he will be able mechanically apply in his further work. Unfortunately, it is somehow happened so that education is often treated pragmatically - as a tool to earn one's living - but not as getting some knowledge of the world, not romantically or creatively.
However different the situation may be, many university graduates really find sometimes their degrees not sufficient or inadequate to their jobs. I think it is only practice that makes an experienced specialist; an expert in any field with a university degree cannot substitute for a typist successfully unless a person with university education has had a good practice in typing. To me, the problem here is not  to what degree  education is "theoretical" but to what degree the student is mature. In other words, the more pertinent question is this: is one willing to make efforts, strongly and consistently, to get a profound education or does one expect to get everything done for him? the problem is rooted in what can be described as the consumption syndrome: people are becoming less and less independent and mature in the society where everything may be bought for money, and hence more and more  of them become spiritually lazy. Curiosity, thirst for knowledge, the sound romanticism of Learning are no longer in fashion. Many people consider it silly to study the history of the Language because they will never need this information in future; still, they are supposed to become teachers of English.
Generally speaking,  lack of love for knowledge results in people's turning into pieces of machinery of some sort, who can do only what is required of them to do, who intentionally limit their own freedom to experience the world as fully as possible. University degrees cannot be too theoretical: universities were created to transmit wisdom and knowledge through generations, and what practical things could appear without theory? If university programmes and courses lag behind the actual up-to-date methods and techniques, they should be improved. But I think it is not a healthy approach to university education to underestimate the importance of theoretical subjects.
