<ICLE-SP-ALC-0003.1>

2. Volpone consists of two plots: the main plot and the sub-plot. The characters of the main plot, as well as the ones of the sub-plot, show the themes of this play: greed and appearances and reality.
The main character is Volpone, but we can also find others that are also very important in the development of the play (Mosca, Corbacho, Corvino, Voltore and the ones who give entertainment to Volpone. Besides these, we can also find two different characters such as Celia and Bonario).
The names of all of them are Italian but they have a very interesting meaning in English which gives them the characteristics of their behaviour: 	Volpone is a fox; Mosca is a parasite, 	Corbacho, Corvino and Voltore who are names of some birds who fly around to get some benefit.
	Celia means "heaven", "heavenly" 	Bonario means "goodness".
® Volpone is a person who pretends that he's dying while he is receiving goods, jewels and money from other people who visit him.
As we can see/read in the first passages of the play, his riches are the most important thing for him. all he wants is to have possessions (Celia will be another possession he would want to get).
He's very related to the main themes: 'good' because it is his main characteristc, he wants riches above all, he does whatever in order to get them; but also "appearances and reality" because sometimes he's like an actor: he dresses as some different things and he acts as different things in order to get Celia and more riches (he pretends to be a seller of a useless thing because he wants to see Celia, how she is; he pretends to be dying to make the other characters believe that he is going to give his riches to somebody, that's the reason why Corvino, Corbacho and Voltore go to visit him and give them gold, money ... to seem that he's friendly to them. But instead of thinking this, all he does is to get benefit from it because he is not dying and he is having gradually more and more riches; he also goes to the judge, dressed as some other person, pretending to be other one). He is like an actor, his life is a play where he has to play different roles.
	As we can conclude from his love for riches and possessions, he is a corrupt character, he is an amoral. This can be shown in the people who are around him, they are not ordinary people, they are strange who try to entertain Volpone. He needs that to be happy so he is quite corrupt and a low morally character.
At the end, when he realizes that Mosca has dicated him, he wants to fishish at the top, he does not want to lose the control he had before so he confesses, although it is also negative for him but he wants to be above Mosca.
	We can also see the type of character he is when he is talking to Celia. We can appreciate the differences in mentality and in the things they prefer.
® Mosca is another important character. He is a parasite, he lives getting profit from Volpone and the situation they have invented. he is the one who invents the cheats to the other characters.
	At first, he seems to be next to Volpone to be his real servant but in fact, he only wants his riches and he also really wants him to die and to become his heir.
He is very related the main themes of the play. He is also a greedy person because he also wants Volpone's riches but he is also related to appearances-reality because he seems to be a very good friend of Volpone but he hides his real objective: his fortune.
	Besides Volpone, he other characters are also dicated by him because all of them think that Mosca is telling the truth (that each of them are the heirs of the riches) but, in fact, he is trying to persuade them to give Volpone valuable things because, afterwards, he is going to be the real heir.
	We can read a monologue from him where we can find his real intentions and his thoughts to other subparasites. He is proud for himself, for being such a good parasite and for doing the things so good as he does.
	At the end he is punished, the same as Volpone and the other greedy characters for his actings.
	In fact, he is very ingenious character because he confuses other characters and invent situations which are all from a very witty mentality.
K Corvino, Corbacho, Voltore are other characters which are quite greedy. They are public people in the town but they want more power and more riches for them.
	They seem to be worried about Volpone because of he is ill but, in fact, they want him to be dead and they believe, by Mosca's words, that, each of them, are going to be his heir.
	Even, one of them puts his riches to the name of Volpone and  gives it out from his son (Bonario) thinking if Volpone would be happier with him and that it would  be perfect for him to receive Volpone's riches (Mosca told him that).
	They trust on Mosca as the one who can give them the riches. At the end of the play, they are also punished for what they have done.
K Characters such as Nano, Androgyno ... only are the entertainment for Volpone and, as I have said before, they illustrate the way of liking that Volpone has and the strange characters he is with.
	All of these are the greedy characters of the main plot. But  we can also find anothers who are the good ones and who are the instrument for the poetic justice at the end of the play: Celia and Bonario.
K Celia is the wife of one of the characters that want the riches of Volpone. As Volpone has know her, he wants to possess her.
	Firstly, she is always with Volpone, we can appreciate that  she is completely different. She is very worried about her inner part, she prefers to be a virtuous woman rather than a beautiful woman (she says to him that she prefers to destroy her face). She also tries to convince Volpone of the spiritual things but he is a materialistic character, he offers her material things that are not important for her. She's always appealing to God.
K Bonorio is the other good character. He is the son who has been aparted from his father's riches. What he only wants to get, is justice.
	At the end both characters are solved and the other ones are punished.They are condemned to something they have not comitted and that is where we can find the poetic justice.
3. This passage belongs to the moment that Alsemero (because Jaspino suspects that she has a relationship with De Flores) gives her something to drink in order to prove that she is virgin and she has not any relation to anybody.
	Before this, Beatrice had already read the effects that this drink would do to the virgin characters that have it, so she thinks of them and does them: "I'm put now to my cunning: th'effects I know,/If I can now but feign 'em handsomely."
	She acts as if she were virgin to hide that she has relationships with De Flores.
	(Afterwards, she could demand Diaphanta to go with Alsemero in the first night of marriage).
	It is very related to the main theme of the play: apprearances and reality, because she does is not the reality. She seems to be virgin, it is an appearance but the reality is another one, quite different from this. She is not virgin because she is with De Flores. She tries to hide the reality, she seems to be another person to some characters but her reality is another one. Here in this passage, she acts so she is an actress trying to persuade Alsemero and Sesperino of her real life.
4. This poem, written by John Donne, has a clear reference to cosmology. It tells about a man, perhaps himself when he was going abroad, that is telling his lover not to cry or show anything of her sadness (they have a secret relationship and they can be seen) After saying this, he introduces the idea of disasters: earthquakes, tempests which immediately are related to the "trepidation of the spheres". But, as Isabel Rivers says, when "heavenly spheres revolve", that movement doesn't provoke any disaster, on the contrary the result is "harmony or scale composing the music of the spheres."
	That is what John Donne says, that the movement of the spheres are not the cause of those disasters are not this because "is innocent" (l.12). As the 'persona' goes abroad, the lovers have to be separated. He makes a contrast between two types of lovers because each of them are going to face the separation in a different way.
	The two types of loves are related to the constitution of the Universe that I. Rivers say on her book that was believed at that time. There were two levels in the universe: the sublunary level (the earthly sphere) and the trans-lunary level (the heavenly sphere). Each level has different characteristics, the first one are the material things, the things that can be curruptible but the trans-lunary level, eternal things belong to it. With this theory, it can be applied to the two types of love that we can find: 	In the 4th stanza, the sublunary love, he means the material love, the things that can be corrupted, is the one who would die with separation because the elements which form it are not together (it also refers to the four elements that terrestrial sphere and inhabitants have). If the elements (lovers) are not together, the love die. This love is only sustented by sensual and material things.
	But, from the 5th stanza we find another type of love, the one which would belong to the supra-lunary level where things are eternal. This kind of love is not based on the material things such as "eyes, lips, and hands" (l.20) but on the souls. It is something spiritual not material, the lovers would be united in spite of the distance, they would be one part although they are two. These two ideas are expresses by means of two conceits: love is like gold, that if it expands it is still gold. Love is also something precious.
	Another conceit he uses is the compass, they are two as the legs of a compass but they are a unity.
So we can find in this poem, how John Donnes has made a paralellism between the universe, the theory that existed at that time abd the two types of love that we can find and he explained, especially, the love he had, the spiritual love.
5. John Milton wrote his work with some characteristics that are called his "Grand Style". He was a very culturated man, he knew very much about Greek and Latin culture so we find a great influence from those cultures.
	Some of the features of his 'Grand Style' are found in this passage from Book I of Paradise Lost: 	The first thing we can appreciate is the alliteration-. there is a constant repetition of the sound /s/ throughout the passage. He used this to emphasize one idea and in this case, this sound is typical or it reminds us of a snake and because of Satan is talking; he introduces this sound in order to emphasize the character: Satan.
	Another aspect we can find is the use of formulaic epythets in order to avoid repetition of some names. Here we can find "Our Enemy" (l.188) which correspond to God.
	We can also find a lot of latinate vocabulary (words with latin roots which is the mean to get his associations of ideas (they are crossed and they give a certain unity of the poem) This association of ideas are made through polysemy: one word has different meanings or meanings with slight differences. Each one belongs to the English meaning and the other to the Latin meaning. Both are associated and give to the text different ideas. We can find it in 'afflicted' (l.186) and 'offend' (l.187).
	There are also some other characteristics but I can not find it in this passage.
