<ICLE-SP-ALC-0006.1>

1)	The theme of appearances in contrast with reality was a current topic in the 17th century English Literature. Most of the playwriters of this period have dealt with it. In Shakespeare's 'The Winter's Tale', the contrast between appearances and reality can be seen through analyzing in a delailed way other aspects which contribute to the development of the whole work.
	We can start our essay through analyzing the main characters. For instance Leontes, whose jealousy relegates him at the mercy of his own imagination, when Hermione succeds in persuading Leontes' brother to stay more time in Sicilia. it is the time when the action starts, with leontes first suspicions about Hermione's faithfulness. The first contrast between appearances and reality is introduced by the blindness in which Leontes finds himself provoked by his jealous personality, and that does not permit him to distinguish between what is real and what is no more than surface appearances.
	Therefore Leontes behaves guided by these suspicions, so that it is the "motor" that develops the whole play.
	We also must pay attention to what characters say. For instance Hamillius, Leontes' son, makes references to women as disguised through cosmetics and exotic jewels so that we cannot appreciate reality, but it is melt in a mixture which deceives our senses.
	Autolycus, the rogue, is always disguising himself and pretending in order to deceive other people and to reach his aims.
	In the same trajectory, more or less at the end of the play, Polixenes disguises himself as a shepherd with the intention to discover Florizel plans with Perdita.
	To some extend, all the themes exemplify the topic of appearances and reality. This is what happens with the relationship between Art and Nature at the end of the play. Hermione's statue appears at the sight of Leontes as surprisingly real, as if at any moment it would stand up and walk. In fact it is what happens: Leontes is deceived again by appearances once he realizes the statue is Hermione herself. So the theme of "Recognition" puts an end to the contrast between what is real and what is hidden by outward appearances.
4)	The poem corresponds to the second period of Donne's poetry, related to platonic love, that Love proffessed by the souls and not by the bodies. The poem starts with a reference to the theme of "Death", something we can guess through the reading of the second verse: "and whisper to their souls to go". Nevertheless it is not the main theme of the poem, but a way of introducing the topic of Platonic Love. (Before starting our analysis we must bear in mind that the poem corresponds to one of the author's journeys abroad).
	The author continues asking his lover for silence; there is not need to weep because "distance" only affects sensual love, but not love of the souls, which is eternal and pure. So the author asks his lover for silence (possibly Anne Mare), because people could discover their secret relationship.
	In the third stanza the words "Moving of the Earth brings harms and fears" appeal directly to the image of the earthquake moving and shaking harmfully the earth.
	The author continues making reference to the movement of the spheres around the earth, an harmonious movement which produces a motivating music. So there is a contrast between the harmful earthquake and the harmony of the spheres in movement.
	The following stanzas are related to the different kinds of love the author distinguishes: 1.- Sensual, earthly, subject to corruption, below the level of the moon ("Dull sublunary). This type of love cannot admit absence.
2.- That kind of refined, eternal love of the souls beyond the level of the moon. This is the type of love that exists between the author and his lover.
	The verse "Our two souls therefore, which are one" points to the idea that each lover is a hemisphere of the whole world, so their unity is perfect, eternal, unchangeable.
	Donne reinforces this conceit through the image of "Gold", a precious material that always has the same value either we extend it or not.
	The other image we must analyze is the image of the "compass", a compass that has two twin feet, which always move in the same way, drawing a perfect circle because where it starts, it ends. This idea makes references to the author's coming back from his journey, and also points to the topic of faithfulness: "Thy firmness makes my circle just, and makes me end where I begun".
	The shape the compass draws also makes references to the harmonious movement of the spheres around the earth.
2)	We can start making a brief reference to the name's symbolism, having in account that the play is based on a beast fable, though the characters are human beings. The name "Volpone" which appeals to the protagonist, makes references to the "fox" that, pretending to be dead, tries to attack the carrion birds and eat them. So the names are full of meaning and double sense. For instance Mosca becomes Volpone's parasite, the one who takes profit from the situation.
	Both characters, Mosca and Volpone, seem witty characters for the reader; but in fact they are morally corrupted. They are only interested in material things, no feelings no passions. To exemplify that idea we can turn our mind back to the beginning of the play, in chich Volpone praises his properties as if he were addressing God. It makes us think that he has not any respect for religion, he identifies gold with God.
	The same happens when he wants to possess Celia. He persuades Celia (Carvino's wife) appealing to her senses, but not to ther soul. Volpone offers her many riches of either kind (clothes, money).
	But Celia's personality is defined by honesty and perfection, so that Volpone does not achieve his purposes.
	To reach his malevolous purposes, Volpone always feigns sick, and at the end, and as a reward for his lack of moral values and corruption, he will be enclosed in a hospital for the rest of his life.
	Mosca is the character that, at the beginning, helps Volpone to cheat other people; nevertheless, as a parasite he is, he will realize that it is better to get profit from the situation.
	He is at the same level of moral corruption that Volpone, and in the same way he will be punished at the end.
	At another level of importance we have three carrion birds": Voltore, Corvino and Corbaccio. The three of them want to have access to Volpone's Testament, by offering him different presents in order to gain his sympathy and affection.
	All are at the same level of corruption than Volpone and Mosca but the difference is that they are not successful at their enterprises whereas Volpone cheats them by pretending to be ill.
	Celia and Bonario, the other two characters who represent the other side of the coin (that is, they are honest and they have self-esteem) are not so attractive for the audience, but they play an important factor because they emphasize the other characters' bad behaviour. Celia wants to be detached from her beauty to maintain her honesty (in contraposition with Lady would be that uses cosmetics to better her physical aspect, but this is part of another theme which has to do with mimicry in the subplot). In her conversations with Volpone, she tries to appeal to his conscience, but in fact she does not have answer because he is at the deepest level of corruption and degeneration of the self.
	 3)	The text is an extract taken from the main plot. It is related to the main theme of Appearances and Reality in 'The Changeling'. Alsemero has suspicions about Beatrice's behaviour and tries to prove her faithfulness with an experiment which is included in 'The book of experiments, called Secrets in Nature'.
	The book itself points to the main theme in the sense that Alsemero maintained it hidden in a closet. So, one of the more honest characters, also contains secrets.
	The situation is that Beatrice already knew about Alsemero's experiment, and once she has lost her virginity as a reward for De Flores' deed, she tries to feign the effects: she starts to gape and sneeze.
	The words Beatrice speak aside make us guess that she continues pretending and cheating the other characters, as it has been her behaviour during the whole work.
