<ICLE-SP-ALC-0008.1>

1)	The theme of the contrast between appearances and reality is a recurrent theme in the literature of the seventeenth century and specially in drama. This theme also appears in Shakespeare's The Winter's Tale and although it has no great importance throughout the play, we can say that it gives the play its structure.
	The structure of the play can be defined as circular and the theme of appearances and reality functions as a kind of conexion between the play's beginning and its ending. Although most of the characters are deceived by appearances (for instance, Polinexes thinks that Perdita is the daughter of a shepherd when she is Leontes and Hermione's daughter), Leontes is the main character affected by this contrast between appearances and reality.
	At the beginning of the play he is deceived by appearances, thinking that his wife, Hermione, is having an affair with his friend, Polinexes. This misunderstanding provoked by his jealousy will help to develop the action throughout the play (Hermione will be judge and condemned although he is innocent).
	In the development of the play this theme looses its importance and other themes become more important like the relationship between Art and Nature.
	Notwithstanding, at the end of the play the theme gains importance again. Paulina presents to Leontes the statue of Hermione and Leontes is again deceived by appearances thinking that it is really a statue when it is Hermione herself who had been hidden for sixteen years. Although this passage of the statue can also be related to the theme of the relationship between Art and Nature, the theme of the contrast between appearances and reality is providing us of the circular structure of the play. Leontes is now deceived by appearances the same as he was deceived sixteen years before when he thought that Hermione was having an affair with Polinexes. This period of time has been neccessary to discover the truth, Hermione was not dead but hidden, waiting to appear again and hoping that Leontes knows now the truth. But only through appearances Hermione makes Leontes see that her affair was not real. Leontes is deceived by appearances twice, but in one case it serves for him to loose his wife and in the second case she is given back to him. In this way appearances are revelant twice throughout the play giving it a circular structure.
2)	The main plot characters in Benjamin Johson's Volpone can be related each other through some features.
	First of all, their names have a special significance. All their names tell us how are the characters' personality. Volpone, the main character is "the fox", Mosca, the parasite, is a "fly", and Voltore, Corbaccio and Corvino, the legacy hunters, are "carrion birds". This reminds us that the play is based on a fabliaux in which a fox (Volpone) pretends to be dead to attack and eat the birds of pray (the legacy hunters).
	On the other hand we have Celia and Bonario, whose names suggest that they are completely different from the former characters. Their names suggest good qualities, as Celia is derived from "coelum" which means "sky, heaven" in Latin and Bonario comes from the adjective "bonues" which means "good". In fact, these two characters are completely different although sometimes they may seem dull, they don't show negative features and they are not possessed by greed as the other ones. This greed is the main theme of the play and it is perfectly represented in the characters. Volpone is a greedy person, found of riches and gold and he loves to cheat people. He has neither morals nor respect for religion, (as we can see at the beginning of the play) and he treats people as if they were his possessions (as in the scene when he tries to woo Celia). He is morally flawed character who shows the depravation of Italians (although this depravation refers to London middle classes) this depravation is also patent in his servants: Nano, who is a dwarf, Castrone, and eunuch and Androgyno, a hermafrodite.
	On the other hand, Mosca is the parasite. He is the one who helps Volpone to cheat the legacy hunters although at a given time he decides that he will work only for himself. In this moment he changes his mind which shows that he is a voluble character. In his monologue he makes a division between the two types of parasites (parasites and subparasites) tellin than he is a clever parasite who has a superior intelligence to cheat people.
	The legacy hunters, Corbaccio, Voltore and Corvino, can be considered subparasites. they try to cheat Volpone in order to get all his riches but as they are not very intelligent they don't discover that Volpone is only pretending he is dying. They offer Volpone lots of presents but Volpone is more intelligent than them. But although their intelligence is inferior, we can see that they show the same greed as Volpone. This theme of greed is useful for the author to write a play with a complicated plot but we have to say that in general, with the exception of Mosca who has a certain psicological development throughout the play, all the characters are quite flat and simple.
3)	The main theme in Thomas Middleton and William Rowley's The Changeling is that of appearances and reality. In these lines we can see that this theme is also present.
	Firstly we have to say that these lines correspond to the passage in which Alsemero tests Beatrice-Joana, giving her a potion, in order to discover if she is a virgin or not. But beatrice is not a virgin, she has already had sex with de Flores so she has to pretend the syntoms that the potion would have on a virgin. This is the point in which the theme of appearances and reality appears. Although Beatrice knows that she is going to be given this potion she pretends that she does not know it and she even tells Alsemero that she fears "'twill make me ill" (live 136), and when Alsemero promises her that it will not hurt her, she clearly tell that she will pretend to have the effects she know (lives 138, 139) and she even gapes and sneezes. Alsemero is now deceived by appearances from the syntoms he has seen he tells that Beatrice is a virgin without any doubt, but he does not know that Beatrice was only pretending and that in reality she is not a virgin. Beatrice is "chaste as the breath of heaven" for Alsemero (line 149), she is a virtuous woman him, but these are only the appearances she shows. In fact she is a morally corrupted woman but her reality is hidden behind her appearances to the characters of the play and only De Flores will be able to discover this corrupted reality.
4)	The poem "A Valediction Forbidding Mourning" belongs to Jon Donne's neoplatonic love poems so it does not show the erotic tone of his previous poems or the religious feelings of the last ones.
	This poem was probably written on the occasion of one of Donne's travels because its main aim is to recomfort the lady during his absence. In the first stanza he makes a comparison between someone who is dying and the separation of the lovers and in the second one he addresses to the lady and asks her not to cry or sight to keep their love not profanated. This may mean that their relationship was secret. (In fact the lady could be Anne More whom he married secretly) 	The next quatrain introduce us the the idea of cosmology in the 17th century. As he has already said in the preceding stanza he does not want the lady to cry or to sight ("No tear of loods, nor sigh-tempests move") and in this stanza he tells the reason "Moving of the earth brings harms and fears" (line 9). According to cosmology the Earth was stationary, so its movement could cause a catastrophe. In the following lines he introduces the idea of the spheres. These spheres are movible, their movement causes no damage but music. he is, in fact, placing his love above the earthly. In the following stanza he reinforces this idea. The love of those placed in the sublunary area is "dull" (line 13) and their soul is sense, their soul is not eternal and this is why they can not admit absence. Their soul is made of the four elements that combine in matter, and this elements can not be separated. As these four elements, the sublunary lovers can not be separated because absence will destroy them.
	In the fifth quatrain Donne asserts that his love is not like the one of the sublunary lovers. His love is "much refined" (line 17), it belongs to the superlunary sphere so absence can not destroy it. Their love is not made up of the four elements but of the quintessence so if they separate they do not miss each other. In the following stanza he introduces the idea that his soul and his lover's soul are only one so when they separate it is "not yet a breach, but an expansion" (lines 22-23).
	Finally, in the following quatrains he develops the conceit of the two lovers as the feet of a compass. By placing two terms that do not have anything to do he tries to express the feeling that absence can not hurt his love because as the feet of a compass the lovers will be united for ever.
