<ICLE-SP-ALC-0005.1>

2)	The main plot of this play is based upon the tricks and cheatings of two characters, Volpone and mosca, with the aim of getting riches and joy. The main character of this plot, or at last the one who has a special relevance, is Volpone. This caracter is going to feature the most important characteristics of 17th century English literature, that is to say, that of greed, and of course the contrast between appearances and reality. as regards to greed, we realise that the very beginning of the play that this character is a greedy one. In the first act of the play, Volpone seems to worship his gold and riches. He even sees a comparison between his gold and (rescribed by Volpone as 'the son of God') and a saint. Of course, this paragraph in which Volpone is worshiping his gold has got a moral implication underlying. If the saint the worships is something material, we can guess that Volpone's morality is, in first instance, really disturbed, and secondly, that he is a morally flawed character. The envy thing he cares about is his riches. Nothing else produces on him such a satisfaction and fulfillment. We can also see this attitude in the way Wolpore treats other people. There is a scene in which he tries to woo Celia, who is also worth commenting. Volpone is not going to offer her a true love, a romantic love which could be rewarding for both of them. What he actually does is to offer Celia sensual pleasures such as drinks, flowers, gifts and so on, so forth. The vision that the readers can draw from Volpone's words and actions is that his conception of human relationship is a little negative.
	We have pointed out before that the great theme of appearances and reality can also be applied to Volpone. I think that he is a sort of instrument used by Ben Jonson in order to reinforce this contrast. Volpone is highly confused by this contrast and the conversation that he has with Celia is a very clear instance of this confusion Volpone wants to woo Celia with sensual pleasures, (outward appearances) which are going to be drastically rejected by Celia, a character that shows a remarkable moral integrity. Johnson uses these two characters in order to confirm that this opposition really exists. Velpone is deceived by those outward appearances (drinks, suits, jewels) whereas Celia shows great moral beliefs and convictions. Thus, in this scene, the contrast between appearances and reality is certainly underlined.
	Futhermore, this is not the only moment in which Volpone reflects that he is declined and guided by appearances (= senses). There are futher ocassions in which he shows this attitude: 	1) when he disguises as a "mountebante" in order to impress Celia with his verbal capacity.
	2) when he disguses as a "marnifico" in the trial.
	3) and, mainly, when he pretends to be dead when he is perfectly right and alive. Connected with this point "Volpone" is a play based upon a very traditional genre which is the fable. The action and development of the play is focused on a famous popular fable dealing with a fox and some carrion birds.
	Although Volpone is a characted that, in principle, shouwl not be very trustworthy due to his tricks and chatings on other people, he really achieves among the audience a feeling of sympathy and entertainment. We enjoy how Volpone prepares his cheatings and also the way he carries them out. However, and because of his lack of morality, he is severely punished at the end of the play. Despite his 'naughty' attitude he is the only character that shows a dignant point of view, or at last a feeling which is closed to dignity.
	However, Volpone does not work only on his own. He has got a servant who is going to help him out in both plotting and performing all their tricks. This character is MOSCA, with whom the audience also has a closer tie of, let us say, affection and sympathy. As well as Volpone, mosca is also a very witty, ingenious character who always finds it easy to cheat on other people and accomplish brilliantly all these tricks. The attitude of Volpone is given away by his own words in a very relevant soliloquy. In this monologue, mosca is going to deal with his position in the social hierarchy. He says that he is very proud of being a 'parasite', and this words perfectly fits with his position in society. However, he utters that he is not a mere or ordinary parasite but a superior inteligent parasite that is very witty in the 'cut of cheating'. He states that whilst he belongs to this rank of parasitism. There are other parasites who are not ingineous enough to achieve all the tricks and cheatings he actually gets. This monologue is extremely important for the posterior development of due to one reason. Up to this point, mosca and volpone have been co-acting anc co-performing all their tricks. From this monologue onwards, mosca will start working on his own. He decides to get rid of the mastery of his lond and began to work by himself. However, this decission he makes is going to be hidden because mosca still wants to cheat on volpone in order to take all risks away. Thus, we can reward mosca as 'double-dealer', who according to his words, should 'change his visor' as quick as possible in order not to be caught.
	On our opinion, we deal with the personality of this character, who are perhaps analysing one of they most clever and shrewed, if not the most, character of the play. We, readers, have a lot of fun with mosca and, although he does not show that 'dignat like' attitude of Volpone, we still consider him as the central character of the play.
	That theme os appearences and reality can also be noticed in three characters that perform an extremely valuable role in this play. Voltore, Corbaccio and Corvin are really essential to underspane the real theme of this play. The meaning of his maes does give us a very clear clue about the possible behaviour that these characters can show in the play. First of all, we get 'Voltore', name that means volture in English, and, secondly 'Corbaccio' which means 'raven'. The meaning of these names is really significant because they are connected with their attitude with the play. The only aim that these three characters have in the play is to get Volpore's riches at any price. They want to be included in Volpone in order to be the first inheritors of his large fortune. They behave as though they were proper carrion birds flying around a dead animal until they can eat it. They are only waiting for Volpore's death but they pretend to be very much affected by the illness and condition of Volpone. They look after him, they seemed to be interested in Volpone's health but this is just a mere appearance. They pretend to be taking care of Volpone when they just seem to die. These three characters are, therefore, prominent ilustrations of that contrast between appearances and reality.
	To finish with this brief brush up on the most outstanding characteristics of the main characters of the play, I would also like to give a brief account on two characters that are also important in the structure of the main plot. These two characters are CELIA and BONARIO. The function of this two characters in the play aims at the establishement of the contrast between those morally flowed characters we have been commenting so far, and those characters in who a strong morality remains intact. Celia and Bonario are perhaps the only two characters who are neither attracted, nor interested in Volpone's fortune. Celia is a very chase and religious character who is always invoking the Heavens and the feature applied to Bonario.
	From a dramatic point of view these characters are rather dull since they are always repeating the same words and defending the same ideas. Ben Jonson uses these characters in order to show how witty and clever the rest of the characters are. As a matter of fact, these two characters are by no means attractive for the audience. On the other hand, and from the point of view of their personal behaviour and manners, these two characters are, of course, the most attractive ones in the play.
*Further characters would be: NANO		 ANDROGYNO	 CASTRONE These three characters also turns out to reinforce the sordid morality of Volpone.
4)	This poem we are going to analyse is included in the group of love poems, especifically in those poems dealing with platonic or spiritual love. Donne, at this stage of his career, has already given up those love poems marked by an erotic tone and has started writing dealing with much more spiritual love.
	'A Satediction: Forbidding mourning' is one of the most brilliant samples of this sort of poetry and also most valuable example of the use of the conceit in John Donne's poetry.
	This poem referring to death but death, as we will comment later on, is not the foals of this poem. John Bonne is describing the moment in which two lovers have to separate for a while. The approach Donne is going to give to this separation is very different from the approach that any other poet would give. in the second stanzza, Bonne or his persona are saying to his lover not to feel sorry because of their separation. If she cried, everyone would notice that they were in love and they did not want anybody to know so.
	In third stanzza, we see the first reference that John Bonne is going to make to the configuration of the earth, according to the predominant view of those days, that is, the polemmic conception of the world divided in consecutive spheres, being the earth the center of these spheres. However, the very first verse of the 3rd stanzza ('moving of the earth brings harms and fears') refers to the violent and terrifying earthquakes that at those were believed to be a punishment of the Gods ('men rerckon what it did and menat'). However, according to astronomers, this movement of the spheres was not violent or trightening but something harmonious which produced music ('(...) the resulting harmony or scale composing the music of the spheres').
	From the 4th stanzza onwards, Donne begins to focus on the love that this couple is undergoing and also how this love would react to that separation. The first two verses of this forth stanzza are quite significant. he bears out the love he has for his lover. This love is purely spiritual and in this fourth stanzza, he starts defending the advantages that is spiritual love has. In first instance, he utters that lovers who are only appealed by a sexual love are eventually dissapointed. This dissapointment can be brought about by their absence. Absence for, so to speak, 'sensual lovers' is the reason that explains why their is weaker than the love of the 'spiritual lovers': 'Whose soul is sense cannot amit absence, because it dath remove' 	The following stanzza stresses again on the same factors of the former one. Both lovers do not mind the function of 'eyes, lips and hands', all of them elements to go farther in their love.
	In the following stanzza, Donne gives a very remarkable example of his skill in making up 'conceits'. The first line of this stanzza reflects an idea which very frequently arises in John Bonne's poems. This idea is connected with the fact of the unity of two souls. We saw this mixture in 'the Flea' where the blood of the two lovers were united, we also saw this idea in 'The Good-Morrow' with the verse 'Each hath one and is one'. Therefore, this verse sounds quite familiar if you have read more poems of John Bonne. However, the punchline of this stanzza is on the third line. Here, John Bonne builds up another conceit saying that the separation in a couple of spiritual lovers, as they actually are, does not mean 'a breach but as an expansion' that is to say, 'the more separated they may be, the wider soon their love will take up'. He, consequently, compares his love with the enormity of the ocean, because it is the ocean the element which is to establish that separation. However, in the final line of this stanzza, he also points out that their love with this separation could become a little thinner: 'Like gold to airy thinnes beat'.
	In the next stanzza, we can also find another 'conceit'. In the second line of the poem, Donne mentions the word 'compasses'. In fact what he is pointing is a comparison between their love and a compass. The two lovers would be the two feet of a compass. We all knew the typical movement of a compass, that is, the drawing of circular figures. What he means with this conceit is that the movement of the compass is similar to their love. Wherever one foot of the compass moves, it is going to meet the other foot. The same happens with these two lovers. Their love is circular and wherever they are, they will always be together. Graphically, this would be as follows: 	one     / \   lover = they will always meet in the same place because 	lover /     \		they are never separated 	In the two final stanzzas, John Donne explains the meaning of that conceit and finishes the poem with two very meaningful verses: 		' Thy firmness makes my circle jost 		and makes me end where I begun' 	These two verses describe the movement of the compass = love. He will always end by the side of his lover. When he returns from that trip, he will be right in the place where he began it, that is, he will be allongside his lover, in the same place where they were when they separated from each other.
1)	The contrast between appearances and reality in 'The Winter's Tale' is also of more worthy relevance and that is why the play is morable as far as references to this topic are concerned.
	From the very beginning of the play, we can see a character who is going to be repeatedly deceived by appearances. This characer is Leontes. And he is deceived by appearances because he thinks that his wife, Nermiore, is having a love affair with Polixenes. With no justification, Leontes accuses Nermiore of a crime that she had never committed. Due to this fact, Leontes rejects to be the father of a bastard, perdita, because this would a matter that could had to recognize that he was a cuckud. Perdita is casted away in an isolated island and there she is going to be brought up by a mumble shepherd.
	The development of the play is continuously offering examples in which we can notice this contrast between appearances and reality. The first of these examples is reflected on the character of AUTOLYCUS. He is just a mere roadgue who pretends to be a very important trader of goods. Though the reading of the play, we know that he is not when he pretends to be. He is a mere pickpocket.
	Florizel, who is the son of Polixenes, disguises himself as a shepherd in order to gain the love of Perdita. He can be what he really is because the social differences between them could entangle their relationship.
	Apart from the ending of the play, there is another moment in the play which exemplifies this opposition. The conversation between Perdita and Polixenes offers a great deal of information about the themes of the play. It is not only an example of the contrast between appearances and reality, but also an example of the relationship between art and nature. In this conversation, Polixenes says to Perdita that a wedding between two persons of different social classes should not be recommendable of course he does not know that his son is in love with Perdita. Polixenes is deceived by the external and humble appearance of Perdita.
	Polixenes also represents a clear example of IRONY since the words he utters in this conversation turn against him at the end of the play. We can also IRONY in Perdita's words when she says that 'nature is bastard' when Leontes regards her as a bastard.
	At the end of the play, we again have that contrast between appearances and reality and it is Leontes who is going to undergo this contrast again. In this ending, Nermione, who, so far, has been judged, nexed and banned because of her suppposed condition of adventuress, is going to be presented as a statue to the eyes of Leontes. In fact, Hermione is no longer a statue but a living creature. However, Leontes does not really make out this fact and he is again deceived by an appearance. When Nermione starts walking, Leontes gets completely astonished and they finally reconcite.
	With this final reconcilation of Hermione with leontes, Shakespeare, apart from presenting one of the most important themes of the book, the is, RECONCILIATION, is also giving the last ironical detail of the play. It is quite surprising that reconciliation between Hermione and Leontes is brought about by appearances, Hermione being presented as a statue makes Leontes realize the love that he has for her and this element produces reconciliation and joy.
	In conclusion, it is true that the play regarding to this theme has got a clearly circular structure because it begins and finishes in the same way. But, as we have previously discussed, the contrast between appearances and reality is spread throughout the play.
3)	As in many other plays of this 17th century, appearances and reality turn to be the thematical center of most of them. Middleton & Rowley's 'The changeling' is also another example of this contrast. Perhaps, it is this play the one which shows more visibly this opposition.
	From the beginning of the play, we know that this is going to be the main center of narration. We know that because of the words of the different characters. Beatrice Joana warns other characters not to trust what the eyes see but to try to go beyond in the appreciation of other people ('our eyes are like sentinels' is what Beatrice Joana says). However, we see how these words are going to sum (against her especially after committing the crime of alonzo Piracquo.
	There are many other characters that also show this theme. Antonio and franciscus, two characters that appear in the sub-plot of the play, confirm this contrasts. They disguise themselves, we perfectly notice this conflict: 	1) Alsemero, who at this stage of the paper is the object of Beatrice Joana's love, 	wants to test whether she is virgin or not. He prepares a potion which he thinks is 	suitable to check Beatrice Joana's virginity.
	2) Beatrice Joana is supposed to be a very virtuous character when she is just quite 	the opposite, the is, a murderer.
	3) Alsemero is absolutely sure that Beatrice Joanna is still a virgin but he wants ro 	reassure this first belief.
	In this quotation, we see how Alsemero is deceived by appearances. He thinks that Beatrice Joana is virtuous when she is really evil; she thinks she is virgin when she had already had sex with Flowes. The combination of this suppositions make this contrast flaps up strongly and clearly.
	But the result of this quotation is also really important. Beatrice Joana knows for sure that if she is tested by the experiment of Alsemero, he could know that, in fact, she is not virgin. What beatrice Joana does in order to avoid being tested is to put Diaphanta, her servant, in her room in the very moment in which Alsemero put that experiment into practise. Diaphanta is placed in Beatrice Joana's room with all the lights off. Alsemero carries out his experiment and it really comes off. Alsemero thinks that it is Beatrice Joana who is lying on the bed but that is not so. Alsemero, therefore, is again deceived by a false appearance when he thinks that Beatrice Joana is virgin.
