<ICLE-SP-ALC-0001.1>

1. The contrast between appearances and reality is one of the main themes in Shakespeare's The Winter's Tale. We can realize this because all the problems in the play begin with this theme.  Leontes thinks that his wife, Hermione, is having an affair with Polixenes. But, this is not true. Leontes is deceived by apprearances. He thinks something that is false. All the tragedies begin with the jealousy of Leontes. But this jealousy is based on false apprearances, because Hermione does not have an affair with Polixenes. The false apprearances provoke the jealousy of Leontes. This is the starting-point of the plot.
	Shakespeare gives a circular structure to the play because at the end, the theme of appearances and reality also takes place. Hermione has beenhiding away from sixteen years, and after that period of time, Pauline presents her to everyone as a statue. But it is not a statue, it is Hermione herself. Leontes is also deceived by false appearances at the end of the play, because he thinks that Hermione is a statue. He is deceived twice. This scene also has to do with the relationship between art and nature. Hermione is a statue, but "becomes alive".
2. Discuss the main plot characters in Ben Jonson's Volpone: 	The main plot characters in Volpone have the same features in common. They are coleric characters and they only think about money. The main character of the play is Volpone. His name has negative connotations because in Italian, it means 'fox'. His name is related to a fable in which a fox pretends to be dying in order to eat the birds that surround him. In this play, Volpone wants to cheat the other characters, and in order to do that, he gives the appearance of being dying. He laughs at the other people because they want his money whenhe will be dead. Volpone is having fun of those who pretend to get his money.
	At the beginning of the play, we can realize that he has no morals at all. He refers to his gold and money as if they were saints. He praises his fortunes. He is comparing religion with riches.
	During the play, we can see how Volpone enjoys getting money, but he enjoys the way he does it. He is very proud of himself. He has no morals, he is morally-flawed, corrupt. Volpone also disguises as a mountebank in order to get Celia, but he only wants to have sex with her. He does not love her (profoundly). He is always thinking in a superficial way.
	At the final of the play, he is punished, but he is consequent because he does not want to lose his money.
	Mosca is the parasite of Volpone. This character also has negative connotations because of the name. A parasite is a person who lives by other people. Mosca also participates in the game of cheating the other characters. He belongs to an inferior class and he manages to get Volpone's riches. The nature of Mosca and Volpone is the same, they are very clever, intelligent and proud of themselves, but we do not like Mosca because he lies everyone in order to get money. He adapts in each situation, he gives ideas and cheats everybody. Mosca is a traitor of Volpone at the end.
	One of the most important parts of the play is the monologue of Mosca (in act 3, scene 1) when he presents two types of parasites: the sub-parasites and the main parasites. The first ones are beggars, fools, idiots; the second ones are those who dress elegant and they are very clever, but this complexion is innate. Mosca belongs to this type of parasites because he knows he has the ability of transforming himself in order to get what he wants. This type of behaviour is not taught in anywhere; you  have inside this capacity. From this point, we know that Mosca is going to cheat Volpone.
	The other characters of the play, Corvino, Corbachio and Voltore, have the same feature in common: they only want to get Volpone's fortunes and they pretend to take care of him. The names of Corvino and Corbachio are Italian, the names of carrion  birds that fly around Volpone in order to get his riches. The three ofthem pretend to take care of him and they are cheated because Volpone realizes this hypocrisy. In their way of behaving in order to get the money, Cobachio denies his son Bonario, and Corvino does not mind that his woman, Celia, has sex with Voltore. It is clear that they also has no morals. At the end of the play, they are punished.
	Celia and Bonario are the representation of morality in the play, in contrast with the other choleric and ambicious characters. The name of Celia has religious connotations in Latin. That is the reason why this character in the play is always praying for heaven. She has morals and she prefers to sacrifice her face (her appearance) and not to commit something inmoral. Celia shows her way of behaving when Volpone wants to have sex with her, and Celia, wants to call the attention of his inner-self.
	At the end of the play, Celia and Bonario are rewarded, because of their right way of behaving. That means that these characters who have no moral principles, are punished, and those who have those moral principles, are rewarded.
3. This part of the play is connected with the main theme of The Changelling which is the contrast between apprearances and reality. In this scene, Beatrice is cheating Alsemero and Jasperino, because she pretends she is virgin and a virtuous woman. But this is a false appearance because she is not virgin and she lacks of moral principles.
	The contrast between appearances and reality is reinforced by words that have to do with sight, eyes, to see. In this part of the play, we have to focus on the word 'see', that makes us to pay attention to this theme of false appearances and hidden reality. Beatrice has to show a false appearance in order to notbeing discovered. She has to demonstrate her virginity which does not exist. That is the reason why she imitates what Diaphanta did (because she was virgin). Beatrice shows a false appearance, she has to demonstate she is virgin, and she hides reality, which is she is not virgin. The main theme is that there are hidden realities in what we see. That is the reason why Alsemero and Jasperino are deceieved by false appearances because they believe Beatrice is virgin, and they do not see the reality which is hidden, which is that Beatrice is cheating them because she is not virgin. We do not have to trust on what we see because it can be false.
4. This poem belongs to the second period of John Donne's poetry. It deals with Platonic love, spiritual love, a love directed to the soul of the lovers.
	In this poem, we can realiza that one of the lovers has to go (it is himself), and tells his lover not to make a fuss, not to cry for his depart. The second and third stanzas are linked by geographical elments ('tear-floods', 'sigh-tempests', 'moving of the eart). These are elements related to the earth, and he compares the 'moving of the earth (which is an earthquake) with the 'trepidation of the spheres', which is the movement of the spheres. The first movement provokes disaster and the second one, harmony.
	The third and the fourth stanzas are related with the region above and below the moon. The 'sublunary lovers' love' is subject to die, because it is formed by those elements that provoke the death (earth, air, water and fire). This love is based on senses a Donne says (Line 20, with 'eyes, lips, and hands'). If the lovers are separated, this love will die, because it is based on senses and it is subject to die because of those materials that form this love.
	From the sixth stanza, Donne is referring to the other type of love, which is not based on senses, but on spiritual love, that kind of love that belongs to the region above the moon. This love will not die, because it belongs to the fifth element that forms the human kind. The love with the soul is not subject to die. Donne says that their separation will be an expansion of their love, like it happens with gold when it is beaten. This expansion creates the growth of their love.
	The last three stanzas are connected with the compass. Donne is referring their love as a compass, which it is formed by the two lovers. This image is a conceit, which is typical of Donne. He relates two images that, apparently, have nothing to do, but he manages to link them, in order to surprise the reader. In this poem, he gives an image which has two elements that have no relationship between them (a compass and their love), but the author links them, saying that the two lovers (or one of the legs) has to go, but he will come back, as the parts of the compass. The soul of his lover is compared with the 'fixed foot' (line 27), and the other is making a circle. This image has to do with the moving of the spheres (in the third stanza) and also with the resulting harmony. In this way, Donne is comparing the love that his lover and he feel, with the harmony of the universe and the spheres.
