<ICLE-SP-ALC-0010.1>

1)	The contrast between appearances and reality is presented through the characters; what they say and how they act. This theme leads us to the action which is jealousy. Jealousy is provoked by appearances and due to this all the negative aspects in the play take place.
	The Winter's Tale is a tragicomedy, up to act three there is tragedy, where jealousy, conflicts and misunderstandings are envolved. In the end all these problems find a solution and there is a happy ending as in every tragicomedy.
	The theme appearances and reality give to the play a circular structure, in other words, it begins and ends in the same way.
	As an example of this we see Leontes, king of Sicilia, jealous and furious as he thinks that his wife, the quee, is having an affair with Polixenes, king of Bohemia. From this moment jealousy sets the action and the plot gets complicated.
	Despite the words of the queen, proving her innocence, he is blind, he doesn't want to see reality and commits wrong actions that he regrets later on.
	Connected to this topi we get art and nature another important theme that is applied to the end of the play. As it is said literature which is art, imiates nature, that is, reality.
	When the situation becomes unbearable, due to all the problems they have, included the death of Mamillius, the queen makes them believe that she has died. The king, Leontes, spends sixteen years on his own till at the end his wife appears as a figure. In fact it is her, who never died. Once again we get the theme of appearances and reality.
	Shakespeare wants us to realize something. He wants to emphasize the idea that appearances and reality developes the action in this play. At the same time we consider it as a kind of moral which expresses the insecurity and doubts at that time.
2)	Volpone, is a satirical comedy that cricizes the changes of society. Greed for money is the theme we find. The names of its characters are very peculiar because they reflect this situation. Its names are those of animals and insects. All of them are Italina names. Most of them are corrupted by temptations of wealth, except two of them: Celia, a religious person as her name indicates "heavenly" and Bonario, "good nature". They are the only two characters who act as they speak and believe.
	In the main plot we find Volpone, a rich character and also very intelligent. He cheats people, but goes too far and will be the one who falls in his own running in the end. He is a double dealer.
	Another and very attractive character is Mosca. He helps Volpone in order to cheat other characters, but he realizes he is clever and can get profits from others. From this moment he changes. He behaves in a different way and will try to cheat Volpone to get his riches. This change is called turning-point. There is a soliloquio in the play which is quite significant. Mosca is talking to himself. He prides his intelligence anc unning. He reduces society into a classification of parasites. He includes himself among the high calss, those parasites who are fine and clever. Those who can change appearances and the expression of their faces very quick. This part of the play is considered as a self-conscieousness. He realizes he can work for himself.
	We also find other characters in the plot. Nos as attractive as the mentioned before, but very significant because they also reflect the obsession for money.
	They all seem to care for Volpone when he makes them believe he is going to die. They all appear as hyenas in order to be the heirs of his fortune.
	The plot and subplot are linked by the same idea: to cheat. All the characters will be punished in the end.
	All of them are flat characters. There is no psychological development, although we symphatize and feel attracted to them.
3)	These lines are connected to the theme: Appearances and reality. Alsemero doubts about Beatrice's chastity and tries the Virginity trial, which is called "M" in the play. Beatrice is scared of being discoverd so she will have to make him believe that she is still a virgin: Beatrice: I'm put now to my cunnin; th'effects I know, if I can now but feign'en handsomely 	In these two lines we find a clear example of appearances. She will have to pretend, but won't be difficult for her as she knows the symthoms. She sneezes and pretends her happiness: Beatrice: Ha, ha, ha!
You have given me joy of heart to drink, my lord.
	Her innocent words convice them that she is not pretending, but in fact she is corrupted and evil. Once more time she gets her aims and make them believe that she is as pure as she pretends to be: - My Joanna, chaste as the breath of heaven.
	The plot and subplot in The Changeling are connected to the same idea: appearances and reality. They pretend to be what they are not. The actions of some characters deceive others, because they believe what they see. It is a kind or moral, also presented in other plays like Volpone and The Winter's Tale.
5)	The Paradise Lost, by John Milton relates the fall of man, justifying why it happened. In this paragraph we can see the ambition and fury of Satan to govern everything. He uses grand style, some of the characteristics we can appeciate are: × An indirect way to refer to characters or things: livid flames refer to the hell.
Our enemy refers to the son of God.
× He also uses a polysemic vocabulary, that is, the association of ideas based on the different meanings that a latin word has and an english one. Ex: offend.
× Disgression: it is a second narrative which is liked to a first one, to 	give a better explanation.
	afflicted powers, calamity, despair. These are words related to the 	time they were thrown out from heaven.
