<ICLE-SP-ALC-0004.1>

1)	In the beginning of the play we can see how Hermione's husband is deceived by appearances. Although he says that he does not believe in appearances, he does not take them into account, at last he does and interpretes what he sees in a wrong way. He ends thinking his wife is having an affair with his guest and best friend. Of course this is not true, it does not correspond with reality but he thinks it is.
	In the end he is deceived again, when he thinks hios wife is a statue and not a real person as in fact she is. He finally finds out the truth and the same thing happens at the beginning when he discovers his wife was innocent.
	The difference between both cases, is that in the first one he is deceived himself and the negative consequences are felt by the other characters, at least up to the moment he realizes that he was worng. In the second case the other characters try to deceive him and he deceives himself interpreting in a wrong way what he sees. It is a sort of "revange" but not really, because at last it has a happy ending.
	The fact of doing this gives the play a kind of coherence and it underlines the theme of time and truth. Though time characters relize the truth of the events.
	Although the theme of Art and Nature is present in the second scene what it is important is the relation between art and appearances. Art as a way of manipulating reality, like apprearances do. Art seems real but in fact it is not (Appearances seem real but in fact they are not.
	Polixenes is the main character and it has to be him who provokes the development of the action of the play. Nevertheless there are other characters who have these problem between appearances and reality, sometimes they try to deceive the others and other times they are deceived by themselves or by others.
3)	In these lines we can see how appearances and reality, the main theme, appear.
	Beatrice is trying to cheat Alsemero, and makes him believe she is a virgin, when it fact she is not because she had to pay De Flores his reward, after killing Alonzo having sex with him.
	For that purpose she drinks a glass of an strange liquid that proved if a lady was virgin or not. The way to know it, was thanks to her reactions. As Beatrice was not a virgin she cannot feel these reactions by herself so what she did was to give this liquid to her servant, who was virgin, and observe her reactions.
	In this passage knowing the reactions she has to show, what she does is to imitate them. Thus Alsemero is so happy to find out that she is still virgin. And at the same time she is also happy because she has deceived him.
	It is a clear example of appearances and reality, she is behaving in a way different from the reality to make Alsemero believe she is virgin. So she pretends to be something she is not.
4)	Taking into account the conception they have about the Universe (people from the 17th century) we have to mention several images in the poem that have to do with this belief.
	In the third stanza Donne makes a contrast between the movement of the earth (earthquake) and the movement of the spheres. The first has a negative connotation because people thought that natural disasters were sent by God and a punishment. In the poem we find three: floods, tempests and earthquakes (the first two appear in the second stanza). The movement of the spheres produce music, harmony, for that reason Donne says it is innocent.
	In the fourth and fifth stanzas he talks about sensual love and spiritual love, and the differences between them. The difference between one and another is what they are made of.
	Sensual love belongs to the sublunary level and that is why it is formed by the four elements: water, Fire, Earth and Air. For that reason this kind of love like everthing in this level is subject of corruption and it is imperfect (we cannot mix these four elements in the same proportion). That is why sensual lovers cannot be separated, if they do so, love ends.
	Refering to spiritual love, it belongs to the heavenly level so it is perfect, harmonious, like everything here. Distance does not have importance in the spiritual love because as it is perfect, it does not matter, nothing has a negative influence on it.
	Donne's love belongs to this kind. Thus he tries to persuade her lover not to worry about their separation, because their love is eternal. They love each other with their soul, so it is a kind od superior love.
	In the last lines we find a reference to the Universe's perfection. Isable Rivers tells us about the cosmos as a perfect, finite sphere, and the same conception is shown in the poem when Donne writes: "Thy firmness makes my circle just, /And makes me end where I begun." These lines not only express this idea of the perfection of the Universe but also the idea of his trip, he will end where he began, that is, together with her.
	This idea of the trip is expressed through a complicated conceit. Donne compares them with the two legs of a compass. She stands for the fixed foot, remarking thus her faithfulness, and he is the other foot.
	Developing this idea of the compass we end the poem with the idea of the perfection of the universe mentioned before, although they are all interrelated (7th, 8th and 9th stanzas).
5)	First I have to mention, is the use of the Blank Verse: 	/ u - / u - / u - /u - / - 	Another feauture that appears clearly in the text is the use of Polysemic words. Words from Latin that Milton uses with both meanings the Latin and the English one. Thus he can express more things with the using of less words.
	These type of words are very difficult to find, because the readers usually do not have a extent knowledge of Latin. But in this case it is not quite complicated, "afflicted" and "offend".
	This preceding feature makes us continue into another. The influence of the classics, Latin and Greek, Aristotle, Homero, Virgilio, etc. It is from them where he takes the Blank Verse and the way of employs are only in order to imitate them. I mean when he mentions the beliefs of the Gods of that time, it is not because he believed on them but to imitate.
	Another time, it is the use of digressions, he starts talking about something but after he goes on with another. For example in the text, Milton is talking about Satan, but he refers to him as fiery waves and instead of stop this image and follow what he is telling, he continues with the waves.
	The most important influence is that of the Bible, the Genesis, in such a way that he is telling what happened since Adam and Eve's times. Related to this the last characteristic I have found: he employs himself as a prophet, he tells what it is going to happen.
