<ICLE-SP-ALC-0009.1>

1)	In Seventeenth century literature we can find that there is a very common topic used in writings that is the theme of reality in contrast with appearances.
	In this Shakespeare's work called The Winter's Tale this theme has much to do with the developmetn of the actions that take place in it.
	At the beginning of the play we can identify that there is a sort of introduction, that is mainly the presentation of characters, and the first fact, that later on is going to mark all the play. We meet characters and the action that is the following one: Leontes invites his friend Polixenes to stay at his home furing a time, and, in order to satisfy his best friend, he askes Hermione, his wife, for her special attention. But this "attention" will be what is going to provoque the Leonte's jealousy.
	This is the first example that we se related to the theme of appearances. Leontes is deceived by appearances because the reality is that Hermione pays special attention to Polixenes following her husband's commands.
	This deceiving is what is going to cause the following actions of the play. Leontes is going to act "blind" for his jealously and to provoque things that later on Leontes is going to repent about them. The play goes on.
	In order to see how the play has a certain circular structure, we have to see the end of it. In this final part, the theme of reality and appearances is again very important. Leontes, through all the play, has been told that his wife, Hermione, was dead, and that his born daughter was brought to another land.
	At the end, due to coincidences, the "lost daughter" of Leontes comes to his real father's kingdom (because Perdita, Leonte's daughter, thinks that his father is a shepherd who carried her when she was a baby). Supernatural forces are the ones that cause all the coindicences of the play in order to give a happy ending.
	Leontes, thinking that his waife died, goes to a place, where a Hermione's "statue" is, and is guided by Paulina. When Leontes sees the statue his repentence grows much more (although during the years when he found himself alone, he also was repenting).
	At this moment another theme is shown: the theme between Art and nature. Art imitates Natura and Nature also imitates Art. The "statue" that represents Hermione is related to this theme.
	When Leontes sees the statue, he starts to speak about how repented he is and Hermione, who was not really dead, forgives her husband's actions. All this points to reconciliation and so, we get a happy ending. Leontes has got his wife forgiveness, he has found his lost daughter (who is going to get married with Florizel, Polixene's son), he has also found his frienship with Polixenes ... all is like a group of coincidences, that can show the theme of reality in plans and in real life, that ends happily.
	We have seen that the contrast between reality and appearances gives unity to the play, from the beginning to the end, and in order to show this Leontes is deceived twice by appearances: once with negative consequences and twice with positive consequences because it points to reconcilatiation.
2)	Benjamin Jonson wrote several types of comedies in the Seventeenth Century. He worte: comedy of humours, satifical comedy and roman tragedies, that are not comedies.
	In satirical comedies B. Jonson tries to satirize the middle classes because of the change in the social values, and an example of this type of comedies is Volpone, or The Fox (with some influences of the fabliaux).
	B. Jonson shows satire mainly through characters and through their actions, and by this reason, it is very important to observe and to know how they are.
	The two main characters of the main plot are Volpone, whose name is quite significant because it is a name of carrion bird, and Mosca, whose name reminds us a parasite or an insect.
	The main topic of the play is greed, desire for money, and mainly the action is developed following this desire. In order to get richness, characters cheat others and everyone is always looking for his own benefit.
	Volpone is moved by greed, and he also says that at the beginning of the play he is able to do whatever in order to get what he wants. He is able to adapt false identities; he is able to discuss as a mountebank; he wants to convince Celia in order to have any relationship with her ... and this shows the topic of reality and appearance.
	Mosca is the other main character of the main plot. He is also a great cheater and he is proud of it. In the play we can find a soliloquy of Mosca talking about parasicism. He divides society into different degrees of parasites and he places himself in a superior level.
	He also talks about the good qualities of a great cheater (quick on thoughts and actions), but all this is something innate. This is a part of the play in which we see introspection and self-consciousness.
	Everyone in this play is able to cheat others. Voltore, Corbaccio and Corvino, other characters, want to deceive Volpone when he, at the same time, is trying to cheat them make them to believe that he is dead lying on bed. These three characters are also moved by greed because what they want is Volpone's money.
	So we can find in the main plot three kinds of decit: 	× Voltore, Corbaccio and Corvino trying to cheat Volpone.
	× Volpone and Mosca trying to cheat these three characters.
	× And Mosca trying to cheat Volpone and these three characters.
	There are in the play other characters who are used in order to emphasize the main characters' actions. For example we find Nano (a dwarf), Castrone (an eunuch) and Androgyne (half man/half woman), all deform characters, who are used to show the deformed aspects of Volpone. Bonario and celia are dull characters who are useful to show how much the morality of the man characters is corrupted.
	All the characters who have behaved in a bad way, cheating others, and behaving no following morality rules, are punished and every one is punished according to their "sin". For example, Volpone will be punished loosing all his money because his main desire was based on money. This is what is called "dramatic irony" or "irony of fate".
	We do not identify with characters due to the detachment, but we feel more sympathy to Volpone, rather than to Mosca, because Volpone at the end repents himself of all what he has done, and Mosca, as he wants to cheat Volpone, is seen like a traitor.
	In conclusion we have seen that ll the characters of the main plot of Volpone are guided by greed and even they cheat others in order to get what they want.
4)	In the Seventeenth century it was thought that Universe was formed by different transparent spheres, and that the cosmos was divided into two levels: a level beyond the moon, where everything was eternal, and a sublunary level where everything was formed by the four elements (earth, water, air and fire), and everything in this level was "dumned" to die.
	The spheres moved and the friction between each others caused sounds of different notes of a scale "composing the music".
	John Donne thinks in this theory when he has to write this poem and the images that he used in it are related to the spheres and to the sounds.
	Firstly, we can see how J. Donne try to reproduce the sound of the friction of the spheres giving a regular rhyme to his verses and also offering a kind of rhythm in the entonation of and every verse. The scheme of the rhyme of each stanza is ABAB, but the rhyme does not follow on the following stanza. And the scheme of the rhythm for example in the first two verses is:	u - / u - / u - / u - / u - 					u - / u - / u - / u - 	In the thrid stanza we find that J. Donne identifies the innocence of the movement of the spheres with the innocence of his love. The image of the earth represents Donne's love, because the earth in this system of spheres is not moving, as his love is not changing.
	In the following stanza the two lovers are identified with the system of the Universe: there is a level beyond the moon and a sublunary level. As his love has been born on the sublunary level, where all is dumned to die, and where all is formed by the combination of elements and this combination is imperfect, if they separate, their love will die.
	The image of the compass refers to the perfection of the system of the spheres and it also refers to the separation of lovers: although they are two bodies, if one goes away, the other one has also to go. The compass is used also to give a visual image (the circles that the compass make). The visual image of the circles remind us to the circles of the spheres.
	We have seen that John Donne in this poem called "A Valediction Forbidding Mourning" makes a good use of this theory of that time. he relates his love and the two lovers to the system of spheres, to the sound of music that the movement of the spheres provoques and to the visual image of the circle represented by the compass.
5)	John Milton uses his knowlege about classical literature to create his own style called "Grand Style" and show it on Paradise lost.
	We can find: the influence of Homer's Illiad and The Odissey and Virgil's Aeneid (epic poems); formulae, formulaic epithets and perophrasis to refer with other words to Satan (apparently the main hero of the book, but not really); disgressions, allusions through the whole book to things that were said before (to give unity to the book); and a complex syntax following grammatical rules of Latin.
	The way that Milton has to associate ideas is using a latinate vocabulary. He uses many words with a polisemic meaning. He also makes one idea deriated from the latin meaning of a word and another idea deriated from the English meaning of the same word.
	In this part we can see an example of that with the word "afflicted". It can refer to "Powers" (afflicted angels) and it also refer to the "reinforcement" related here with the meaning of latin "ruin" (a reinforcement is needed from the ruins of something).
	Paradise lost is not the usual epic poem. The here seems to be apparently Satan, but who are the real heores are Adam and Eve. And this part is also an example of this because we see that is Satan who is talking in this speech (and mainly in all the book Satan is more alluded rather than others).
	We see that the main literary technique of John Molton is tha association of different ideas basing on vocabulary of polisemic meanings, and he is allowed by that to give a unity to the whole book and to the ideas showed in it.
