<ICLE-SP-ALC-0007.1>

1)	The Winter's Tale has a circular structure because it begins and ends with the theme of appeareances and reality. We can appreciate this aspect in the fact that Leontes is deceived by appeareances two times. The first time at the beginning of the play - this is act I, scene ii - and the second at the end of it - act V -.
	The first time, Leontes is deceived by false appareances because he thinks that his wife, Hermione and his friend the king of Bohemia, Polixenes, are having an affair. This jeaulosy cased by these false appareances (the affair is non-existent) has very negative consequences because it provokes all the tragical events that happen in the play, such as the death of Leontes' son and Antigonus and also the fact that Hermione looses the favor of Leontes.
	The last aspect mentioned above is the most important of all because Leontes is deceived again by appareances when Hermione - after is told that her daughter has been found - decides to recover the favor of Leontes. Shakespeare uses the relation between art and nature. In the Renaissance, art was considered to be an invitation of nature. In this way, when Leontes sees a supposed statue of Hermione is as he himself says 'mocked by art', because what he is really seeing is not a statue but Hermione herself. As we can see, this second time where Leontes is deceived by appareances has not tragical consequences, in fact Hermione makes him believe that she is a statue as a kind of punishment for Leontes and what is more important, these, allow Hermione to recover the favor of her husband and also that leontes toves his protection to his daughter, Perdita that is found also in this final act making possible the final double recognition of the play.
	So, as a conclusion we can say that the play has a circular structure because Leontes is deceived by false appareances at the beginning, provoking in this way all the events of the play, and at the end, in this case, false appareances have not tragic consequences and allow the play to have a happy-ending.
2)	The characters of the main plot in Volpone are: Volpone, Mosca, Corbaccio, Corvino, Voltore, Celia, Bonario and minor characters such as Nana, Androgyno and Castrone. As we will see in the development the names that Jonson chooses for his characters are very significant because indicate aspects of their character and behaviour.
	Volpone: he is the main character. His name means fox. In the act I, scene i, thanks to a monologue told by himself, the reader knows the personality of him. In this monologue Volpone sais that gold is his divinity and his saints. This means that he has not respect towards religion so he is a morally-flawed character. We also get the information that the way he takes his gold is by means of cheating and what is more important, he enjoys cheating: In order to cheat he disguises himself two times in the play - this is the scene of the mountebank and the scene of the trial - and pretends to be dying in order to get presents and increase his wealth. So he shows appareances and hides his true nature with the purpose of becoming richer. Another aspect of his personality is the fact that he treats persons as possessions: he cants to possess Celia. In order to do so, he offers her sensual pleasures and and not the inner self of his. The fact that he enjoys cheating and persuading makes us think on a fox, as his name indicates.
	Mosca: he is the other great actor of the play. We get information about him in act III, thanks to a sololoquy told by him. He is a parasite, this means that he lives on others. Till the act III, he helps Vulpone cheating, performing and enjoying doing it, but in the soliloquy we find that he relizes that he is intelligent and clever, that he has been born to cheat and decide that he is going to use his abilities and intelligence for his own benefit and not others. From this point he cheats the other characters but also to his master Volpone.
	Corbaccio, Corvino and Voltore are in this order an old gentleman, a merchant and an adocate. Their names make reference to birds of pray. Birds of pray that feed themsleves on the dying fox. This means that these characters give presents to Volpone because they want that Volpone give them his legacy when he dies. So, we can say that they only show appareances because they pretend to be interested in Volpone but what they reaally want is his money. In order to get Volpone's legacy they even sacrifice what 'supposedly' they should care more about. This is, Corbaccio his son Bonario by means of changing his will and Corvino by giving his won wife, Celia.
	Celia, Corvino's wife is one of the characters in the play who is not interested in neither money nor sensual pleasures. She is interested in the inner self of people. We can also appreciate that in act III scene vii she prefers to sacrifice her beauty in order to maintain her self-respect. Her name indicates 'heavenly one'.
	Bonario, whose name means good person, is not interested in money either.
	The minor characters, Nano, who is a dwarf, Castrone, who is a eunuch and Androgyno, who is a hermaphrodite, indicate the corrupted mind of Volpone because he likes to be surrounded by them. Their function is to provide entertainment to Volpone and also to the audience.
	As we have seen by the description of the characters, their names provide to the reader and spectator the key in order to understand their true nature and their behavious in the play.
3)	The main theme in The Changeling is the contrast between appareances and reality. In this play, some characters, in order to get their wills perform a role. Thus they do not show their true nature but mere appareances. To do so, in some cases they imitate, and use masks. All these aspects are very well illustrated in act IV, scene ii by the main character of the play, Beatrice, and underlined by the imagery of eyes and secrets.
	In these lines we can see that Beatrice is in trouble. She realizes that Alsemero is going to give her a drink in order to prove her virginity. She is not a virgin so the only way out she finds is to pretend she is chaste. The reader knows the intention of Beatrice by the asides.
	Thanks to Diaphanta, Beatrice's virgin servant, whom she gave the drink before, Beatrice knows the symptons the drink produces to a virgin woman and in this way she is able to pretend the same reactions in front of Alsemero.
	Thus, thanks to Beatrice's performance, Alsemero is deceived by appareances, he thinks that she is truly feeling the reactions and believes that Beatrice is truly a virgin.
	The imagery Middleton introduces is the one of yes, using for this purpose the word 'see' and he also uses the word 'secrets', that make no think about the secret of the last virginity of Beatrice-Joanna.
	So we appreciate that these lines shows very clearly the main theme of the play thanks to the performance of Beatrice in order to demonstrate Alsemero she is virgin and make him happy as he himself says at the end of this quotation.
4)	The text of Isabel Rivers make reference to the construction of the cosmos. In the poem of Donne, we find several allusions to the Ptolomaic conception fo the universe. We are going to deal with them in the order that appear in the poem.
	First of all we find that Donne in the second and third stanza talks about natural disasters such as 'floods', 'tempests' and 'moving of the Earth' which means 'earthquakes' relationed to aspects of the human being which show dadness. These natural disasters belong to the stationary Earth - that Rivers talks about - and Donne compare them with the movement of the spheres whose movement do not produce natural disasters but harmony, that is why it is innocent.
	After this, Donne talks about the love os sublunary lovers, this is the love of the Earth that as I have said before is stationary or changeable. Because it is an earthly love, is a love based on the sense, is not spiritual so it can last as the love of Donne and his lady.
	The last image that can be explained with the text of Rivers is the one that appears in the last stanza and more precisely in thine thirty-five. In this line, Donne uses the word 'circle'. 'Circle' makes reference to something perfect and harmonious like the Universe. This is because the form of the Universe was a whole sphere and as Rivers sais it is perfect. The image of the circle comes from the image of the compass that the two lovers from and that Donne develops in the previous stanzas. When a compass makes a circle, one foot remains in the centre of the circle, this is related to the 'firmness' of the lady or faithfulness, while the other foot makes the circle. In this way, the last stanza means that the faithfulness of the lady makes that the love of Donne towards her, is a perfect love, spiritual love and thus Donne will go back to her, he will love her for ever.
	As a conclusion we can say that Donne uses the conception of the Cosmos, in his Ptolemaic view to explain to the reader that the love that he feels for his lady is perfect and hamonious and so last for ever, although there is a separation of the lovers because it does not belong to the sublunary world or stationary earth where nothing is eternal.
