<ICLE-SP-ALC-0002.1>

1. In the Winter's Tale there are themes as: jealousy, the relationship between Art and Nature, the importance of forgiveness and reconciliation, the contrast between appearances and reality, ..., etc. The contrast between appearances and reality gives a circular structure to the play. There is a connection between the beginning and the end of the play through this theme.
This play hasn't got a real introduction, the author introduces little by little ideas.
The play starts with the theme of the contrast between reality and appearances and finishes with the same theme.
	At the beginning of the play appear the main characters: Leontes, Hermione and Polixenes. There is a relationship between Leontes and Polixenes, they are friend. Hermione invites Polixenes to stay at their home.
Leontes thinks her wife is deceiving him with his friend. He decides to ask the Oraculo about this. The Oraculo confirms that  so Leontes decides to kill Poliscenes. Leontes asks Camilo to do that but he decides to tell this to Polixenes, to tell him the truth, so Polixenes left the house. This makes Leontes that all he has thought is true.
Leontes sent his wife to prison, she is going to have a baby and he thinks is Polixenes' baby.
Leontesis always under appearances, he doesn't realize what really happens. His son dies when he discovers the situation and his wife, when sees her son died, dies too. But only his son is died because Hermione is apparently died, she is alive. This is one point which connects the beginning and the end of the play.
	Hermione has a baby, a girl, and Leontes sent one of his men to kill her but doesn't. This man dies and the girl is found by a boy.
	At the end of the play appears again the contrast between reality and appearances. In this case the appearance drives to possitive aspects.
	Hermiones' maid asks Leontes if she can show him something and Leontes gives him this grace. She wants to show to Leontes and Perdita and statue. She says Perdita that the woman of the statue is her mother and Leontes recognizes Hermione.
	Leontes is again under appearances. in this part we can see another theme which is the relation between nature and art. Art invites Nature and at the same time Nature invites Art. Hermione invites art because she looks like an statue and art invites nature because it represents real figures, elements of nature, ... etc. Leontes cries and the statue talks, Hermione is alived. All the appearances, confussion things are resolved. Leontes and Hermione are again together. Perdita is recognized as Leontes' daughter. The reality is discovered.
	As we can see there is a connection between appearances and reality. At the beggining the appearances drives to negative situation, at the end to positive one. The play has a circular structure, there is a connection between the beginning and the end of the play. It's like a tale because there are a lot of fantastic events.
	At the beginning the characters live together but by the appearances they are separated. At the end they are together, it is a happy ending.
2. Discuss the main plot characters in Benjamin Jonson's Volpone.
	There are two plots in Volpone. In the main plot appear the main characters: Volpone and Mosca Corvino, Corbacio, ... are the other characters. The names of some animals, but with a special kind of animals: the animals which are around the death.
	The protagonist is Volpone. He pretends he is going to die. He is a character who has no morality. The other characters want to get his money and give him presents, valious gift. These presents make him to get rich.
Volpone or the fox, as this name indicates it is related with an intelligent animal, the fox. Volpone wants to be rich and the way is cheating the other people. He cheats other people by a special way, he represents, as if he were an actor, he is ill. Mosca helps him, he is his servant. He is the person who tells the other characters how Volpone is. He deceives other characters saying that Volpone is going to die. He says the characters that Volpone's properties and money is going to be for them but tells this to the characters individually, so the characters are deceived by Mosca.
The anme "Mosca" is related with the animals who are around dead.
Mosca is intelligent, he invites Volpone and at the end he cheats him. He as Volpone plays as if he were an actor. Volpone tells him what he has to tell the other characters and he does. Sometimes is Mosca who gives ideas to Volpone.
	The other characters: Corvacco, Corvino... belong to middle-class. These characters want to get Volpone's riches. Volpone cheats them and they give him gifts. One of the characters gives Volpone his wife as a present. Through this action we can see how this character hasn't morality. He wants to getVolpone's riches and he doesn¡t matter how to get them.
As we can see all those characters are corrupted. They are avaritious but they are cheating by Volpone. They are deceived, they don't see that Volpone is playing with them and he apparently is going to die.
	Mosca in a monologue talks about parasites. He and Volpone are parasites but clever parasites. The other characters, who belong to middle-class, are another kind of parasites. These parasites live under the title of "noble". Mosca makes a distinction between these two kinds of parasites.
In this monologue we can see how Mosca is going to cheat Volpone.
We can see the following cheatings: Volpone tries to cheat other characters. At the same time the other characters think they are cheating Volpone. At the end we can see how Mosca cheats Volpone.
	The characters play with double faces. Volpone plays as if he will going to die and at the same time he is courting to a lady.
Mosca plays with to faces too. At the beginning he helps Volpone to cheat other people but at the end we can see how he has learnt Volpone's pericies and he invites him, in this case he cheat Volpone. He uses the same tools as Volpone and he cheats Volpone.
	All the characters have manes related with animals. All of them are avaritious. None of them have morality, they want to get something and it doesn't matter how to get it.
The setting is placed in Italy, Benjamin Jonson wants to criticize it and at the same time to criticize middle-class people.
The main theme is appearance, the contrast between appearance and reality. At the end the reality wins. This play is like a fable with a moral conclusion at the end.
All the characters try to cheat anybody: Volpone to the other characters, Mosca to Volpone....
The most intelligent characters are Mosca and Volpone, but Mosca is more intelligent than Mosca as he shows at the end of the play.
3. The Changeling 	The main theme of this play is the contrast between appearance and reality. The main character is Beatrice-Joanna. She is a girl who apparently is innocent, she is beautiful, young, ... etc. Her father imposes her the marriage with Alonzo de Piramo. She apparently accepts it but she tries to do all the possible things to avoid it.
She falls in love with a Alsemero and she wants to marry him. She decides to kill Alonzo but she needs help. De Flores is a servant who loves Beatrice and he is the man who will help her. He kills  Alonzo. Beatrice though that De Flores will ask her money as reward, but De Flores wanted to have sex with her. As De Flores has killed Alonzo, Beatrice has to pay him the reward and the reward is sex.
	Beatrice gets married with Alsemero, the man who she loves. Alsemero has heard comments about the relationship between Beatrice and DE Flores so he decides to test Beatrice's virginity.
	In these lines we can read the conversation between Beatrice, Alsemero and Sasperino. They are talking about the test of Beatrice's virginity.
Beatrice tries to avoid the test and she asks Alsemero what will happen if she drinks the composition. She is playing because she knows the effects of the composition. she is no  virgin so she has to demonstrate Alsemero she is. She says "I fear 'twill make me ill." (136). She is deceiving Alsemero because she knows the reactions, the consecuences of the composition and she says: 	"I'm put now to my cunning; th' effects I know ...." (138-139) She says she must play in an excellent way. She plays as an actress.
Although Alsemero wants to know the truth he doesn't know it because Beatrice has deceived him.
"[Beatrice gapes, then sneezes]" we can see how she plays. She knows what she has to do and does it.
	Beatrice is not a virgen but she is tested by alsemero, he wants to know the truth but he is deceived by Beatrice.
Beatrice is a sinner and she does all the possible things to mantain her image.
4.- 'A Valediction Forbidding' 	Isabel Rivers talks about the division of the world in tha time.
In that time people thought the cosmos was "a perfec, finite sphere'. The earth was the center of the cosmos which was formed by: earth, water, air and fire. The friction between the spheres caused harmony.
	In the poem we can see how these images are reflected.
	John Donne talks about the love related with the cosmos. In the first two stanzas the poet says the woman that she must silence their love. This indicates that love is secret.
	As Isabel Rivers says there is a movement of the spheres which causes harmony. Donne says the same in the third stanza. Donne compares the movement of the earth with the trepidation of the spheres. He says that the trepidation is innocent.
	In the following stanza Donne says that the lovers must not be separated.
After that he says that they are in love so they know their love is constant and perdurable.
	In the following stanzas Donne makes conceits. He says that their souls are one and although they were separated it will continue like that.
If the were separated their love would be expanded as the gold can be expanded.
	He says they are two but they are fixed, united not separated. He compares themselves with a compass. The two stiff of a compass are united.
Here we can see the relation between the cosmos and the love: the compass makes circular lines as the cosmos is stablished.
The compass moves itself as the cosmos does.
	"In the center" (v.29) like the earth which is in the center of the cosmos.
The compass makes as the cosmos circles and the lines end where they began as the lovers.
	In v.14 he talks about sublunary. In that time people thought that all besides the earth were eternal but below were non eternal. The only thing which survives is the soul.
	The poem shows conceits. Between the lovers and the Cosmos the author makes relation. The earth was the center as the love is the center for the lovers, the most important.
