<ICLE-SP-UCM-0042.3>

	Throughout its existence, money has been extremely important for humanity and its presence has influenced largely human behaviour. The reason why it has changed so deeply men's life in all its aspects is difficult to analyze. Here, we will try to clarify the reasons which make the money the root of evil.
	First of all, it is necessary this affirmation to be very clear: money is something more than a piece of paper. This is true from two points of view: 	- Money in itself could never make men happy. It is inly when man change it for material things, when he buys things, when it has its real value.
	- Besides, this power of purchase is the only thing in the world that makes man feel really powerful, just like if the world was at his feet.
	If we consider the human being, as it is, a mortal and insignificant creative in comparison with the inmensity of the universe, this last point can be very attractive for men. Life is short and while we are living, that life is the only one we have, so we try to make the most of it. And the easiest form of pleasure lies in material things. Money can buy everything, sometimes even health, and almost everybody. Feelings such as true love and true friendship are the only things impossible to by with money. Those who have large amounts of money live a life plenty of material things and "friends".
	This mirage of aboundance and luxury blinds men and makes them believe that is what happiness consists in, which is a terrible mistake, that is to say, money does not mean happiness in itself, though it is as clear as daylight that it is necessary for life.
	 	On the other hand, if we mend to remote times, before the existence of money it has always been necessary a system that made possible "commercial relations" among men as exchange and things so we would say that it is logic, because if it had not exist, neither then or now, something to regulate such an important aspect of the History of Humanity like economical sources are, it would have led the world to a total chaos.
	But since the world has been turning men have always had an imperious need of possessing, of having more, ... So there is a very spread belief that money is mean and dirty and corrupted and things so, but this meanness is caused in a very great extent by the human beings and our innate greed. It is an outdated fact to rob and kill for money, it has been always part of man's everyday life and it has happened in all social classes. It does not matter high, middle or low classes, if someone is born or educated in bad instincts, she/he will find in money the perfect way to develop her/his wicked purposes.
	 	If we bear in mind all we have said before, it is true that money is vital for life, but it is necessary to give it the importance it worths. We have to deal with it as an instrument, a mean to get our aims, not an aim in itself, and try to keep our integrity and values as human beings out of the reach of any material temptation.
