<ICLE-SP-UCM-0043.3>

	Marx once said that religion was the ipium of the masses. If he was alive at the end of the 20th century, he would replace religion with television; even now, there are people who think in the same way that Marx; however, we live in a very different period and the ideas have changes.
	Max lived in the 19th century and in that time people needed to believe in someone who protected them; a lot of pest and illness demolished the world and people thought that in religion was their salvation. They needed to forget the idea that men make their own destiny; and so, they believed that all events happened because of God`s wish. We can also point out the idea of existence of a supreme strength was an obsession. This obsession was used by move goverments to maintein the masses calmed and so, they could obtaine more profits.
	Now, in the 20th century, this obsession has, more or less, dessapeared, in some cultures more than in others. The pests and illness have been replaced by the tecnology and the industry development, at least, in a great part of developed countries. The comfort reigns this time, and people prefer to be worried about how to have more money than the neighbour or how to work less. In this framework, some decades ago, it appeared a new invent: the television. At the very beginning, only rich people could have a television set but now it is very strange that in a home was not a television set. The TV is captivating all kind of people: children, young people, old people, etc,. Nobody almost can ran away to the influence of TV. It is called the stupid box, but if you have had one, you can not live without it; the television attracts you in such a way that you can pass some hours in front of the television set without blink. And it is due to the fact that TV gives you all that people want to see: films, sports, etc,.
	However, since two or three years ago. TV emits programs of bad taste, with much sex and violence, and so, books and radio are replacing, but only in a small part, the television.
	It is true that television attracts a lot, but this attraction is not comparable with the attraction of the religion in the 19th cent. The main different is that before people believed in something which they can not see and it marked their lifes forever, since these ideas passed from generation to generation; now people is very influenced by the Tv, but it is different because they do not believe in something which they can not see.
	To finish, we must indicate that in 19th century people had not liberty to choose between to be Christian, atheistic or something like that; you had to belong to your parent`s religion; now, in the 20th century you can choose between to turn on the Tv or not and if you are joined up to the Tv is because you want it and not because someone force you.
