<ICLE-SP-UCM-0003.2>

	Hönderlich said once that "man is a God while dreaming and a beggar while reflecting".
	Thanks to dreaming and reflection, thanks to imagination and science, has man been able to make progress and discover unlimited possibilities.
	While dreaming and reflection were joined, while imagination and science were just one, there were no beggars, there were only gods looking for progress: the aim was to improve, trying to find out how far we could get, and being the new discoveries of great service to mankind.
	The first human gods started imagining the fire; they imagined techniques in order to get everything easier; they imagined unthinkable ways of transport and even they came to imagine the conquest of the unknown space.
	But all this had been imposible without the help of science, both worked together and mankind developed in such a way that everything seemed possible.
	However there was a moment in that way where imagination and reflection split up, and then, for the first time, beggars appeared.
	Those who used to imagined, still considered man as their main end, while those that were used to reflecting, forgot that technique and technology ahould also have in mind human being as their only goal. This was also the moment when such beggars were absorved by their own progress.
	The way changed the direction and focused on power, money and submission.
	Now each of us is obliged to choose one of these two ways. Some continued to risk their lives following the way of dreaming, and what they found was a winding path full of obstacles and drawbacks, a way in loneliness that not everyone is able to finish.
	Others chose the materialistic way, having the support of the vast majority, where everything is easier because a lot of people still think that the majority must be always right.
	The two ways became so separated that occasionally the new improvements are not made for man but against him, and then the question would not be where imagination is, but where human being is.
	Beggars of reflection have power and often they use it in such a wrong way that make Gods of imagination become slaves or just disappear.
	These words do not intend to be an absurd apology of imagination against technology because both are necessary and we can not go without any of them, but it would be good to think about the necessity of joining imagination and technology again.
	Even students, as part of society, have on their hands the duty of abolishing labels: At present, degrees related to science are synonym of future, while those related to Art and Humanities are considered a waste of time, even worse, something completely useless for society.
	To such extent has this division became important that the own rules of society make young people decide their future based on false ideologies which quite often involve deception and failure.
	All of us have forgotten that the most important part of ourselves is something that Maths can not calculate, it is the place where technology is forbidden and feelings have nothing to do with rules and rational explanations.
	Fortunately there are still awake dreamers that forget materialism because the only thing they want is to enjoy life, trying to understand its meaning, there are also poets who find magic in a sunset, or in a flower or even in something so unfashionable as love.
	Probably between the thick smoke from the chimeneys of progress, each of us dreams with the real meaning of life following the way of gods, which can only be reached in loneliness and through imagination.
