<ICLE-SP-UCM-0003.3>

	In every period of time money has been the main reason of many mischiefs due to its meaning in life. First of all, money means wealth, and this means happyness in our culture though it si not true.So that, an evil of our society is that people focus their lives around money, they work as hard as they can, look for several jobs, work all day, and every member of the family to get as much money as they can. One of the results of all this is the competitivity within the jobs in order to be promoted to a higher rank withou caring too much of people they step by. Another consequence is the loss of contact within the family because there are different schedules and they can not see each other very much. Even nowadays, we are arriving to a loss of the family value; married couples do not want to have mor than one or two children because it needs a bigger amount of money and a time to them, for the reason that, they will have to dedicate a part of the time they spend in their jobs. Also related to families, there are a lot of destroyed families because of inheritance o quarrels about money.
	Therefore money is below everything, another evil in our society is the theme of drugs. All the market of drugs is due to the fact of getting money, as they are fobidden are more expensive and so selling them have became a prosper business in which you can get a big amount of money, "easily". The consumption fo drugs is needed once you are adicted to them, and that is what drug sellers look for to get fixed customers without worrying about the destruction of lives that drug brings.
	On the other way round what money cause directly, another evil, are robberies just to get more money or goods other people have and we have not. This something that always has existed since the fist cultures to our days and it will happen for ever.
	However we can not forget about politics and all the evil money has produced in it, due to the ambition of power politics corructed. Countries have been governed by means of money, for example money has caused most of the wars. As the Golf War in wihich the USA declared the war to Sadam Hussein because of the petroleum, a sinonym of great amounts of money and which is in hands of arab countries. Not only USA were involved in this war but also many countries support one side or another deppending on their interests. Or even Bosnia War, in which it seems it was a matter of different cultures, races and identities, it is also present the money because the countires which are around them are not very interested in the end of the war because they can sel them weapons.
