<ICLE-SP-UCM-0045.3>

	The 20th century, called by most of people "The century of technology" has been considered as the human's development time, in which people have achieved their greatest expectations. Nevertheless this world of progress is supposed to have carried us to a life with two main drawbacks: The lack of dreaming and the lack of imagination.
	How can the lack of the two fundamental features of human beings, needed to develop themselves in the advancest time be possible?
	Nowadays, we can enjoy the advantages of computers, and industrialization offer us. We can make use of means; radio, television... They allow us to keep a narrow relationship between different countries all over the world, even we have the opportunity of looking into what is beyond our planet: On the 19th of July of l962, two american astrounauts; Neil Amstrong and Edwin Aldrin were the first men to set foot in the moon. Therefore it is obvious that technology brings foward the possibility of making real our dreams and desires.
	Thanks to technology we have been able to get things we thought impossible to get.
	An argument commonly put forward is that because of industrialization, technology and their possibility of making things much easier for people, we don't make the effort ourselves to make real our desires. It would be a waste of time working more than it is necessary, and we have found the way of avoiding it.
	On the other hand technology is noe guilty of the discouragement of our personal progress as people able of improving our imagination, wit and intelligence. If we have created machines to help us to make our life easier, we could have not created anything that disturbs our mind, that prevent us from doing something innate, something people have been doing since we exist, since we didn't have even the most elementary needs. If we had not had imagination we would not have made any progress and we would be living as in the primitive time.
	Technology is not responsible for the lack of dreaming and imagination. Everybody is able to imagine whenever he wants. The discouragement of imagination due to the modern world dominated by computers and machines, is only an excuse used by people who are against all these novelties, and who prefer a more primitive and simple world, but at the same time not worse. However people who are very fon of technology maybe depend on it to the point of giving up other activities, and this dependence may turn out a problem in regard to the growin of imagination.
	Imagination is very important above all while children are growing up, but recently there has been an enormous preocupation about the bringing up of children who are keen on television. It stops them from playing, dreaming and having a perfect childhood, that is why nowadays schools and teachers are increasing their attention on activities that expedite the evolution of their minds, and one of the most useful activity is making up stories, because they forget reality to become absorved in the world of fantasy.
	On the whole; technology is not the cause of the standstill of imagination, but too much dedication to it stops us from working on our mind.
