<ICLE-SP-UCM-0032.3>

	It is said that nowadays there is no place for imagination or for dreaming in our "supposely modern" world but I have extremely good reasons to support it. First of all, I must explain why imagination is so important: talking about the inventions that rule our daily life which we use everytime (and we are lost if they don`t work properly), I would accept that they are very useful for us and they give us a confortable life and more spare time to spend in all what we want; but all those things are the products of the imagination of a human being or a group of brains that were thinking about a better and easier world. Those products have an imaginative beggining but now it seems that people use their imagination only for industrial purposes.
	Once a professor - whose name I`ll not reveal- said that imagination sells. As we know, the most imaginative adverisment will sell better an item than a conventional one, and, that item is, as well, the result of the imagination of another person and so on. Therefore, we are in the start point again.
	Let me give more examples to support my idea: when we have to work in a particular subject as a book, author or event, there is a pattern to follow but it will be funier if we make it with imagination and it will be better "paid".
Another proof will be the role that imagination plays in all the Arts as Literature, Music and Painting; we need imagination to write, to compose and to understand the meaing of some paintings.
	Dreaming is as well in all our ordinary life. As imagination, dreaming is related to technology as the second stage of imagination: we first imagine a better world and after that we dream about how good it would be and what pleasure it would give to us and all like that. On the contrary, it is also said that dreaming too much is not good because it can be confused with reality; what a mess if we don`t know if life is real or not. Nevetheless, people who are always dreaming and living in their own world are not considered capable of developing important jobs. Because of that, dreaming is not paid very much attention but it is as important as all other industrial inventions.
	To sum up, it is important to say that those two concepts are essential for our developing as human beings; so important for our developing is technology but as the previos stages of Technology, imagination and dreaming have to be considered not antique concepts but ways of improoving the utopia of a better world.
