<ICLE-SP-UCM-0016.3>

	I do not believe in an obligatory military service, and as me, millions of young people. A good example of that would be the attitude of those people who refuse to do military service.
	In a supposed democratic state, people who can not use a gun because of its religious ideas are imprisoned everyday; people who join the army are always glorified as servers of the country.
Anyway, you do not have to join necessarily the army, you can help the community "choosing" an obligatory service or "p.s.s.".
This measure lacks of offectiveness, because, if you choose it, at least in our country, you will occupy a job that could be used by someone who would really need it, and contributing to the increase of unemployment in our so called "welfare state".
For Government, this is the less expensive than paying a new worker their social assurances.
	Above all this, we must add that this obligatory service lasts much more than the standard military service. About this point, I think that people should have to ask themselves about the reasons these young pepole should have for choosing that service, that, at the end, will keep them much more time far from their homes. All those reasons must be firmly respectable as a personal option of behaviour, but should have never been conditioned by the state and the Spanish army.
And we have to make ourselves a question: if our military service is as good and perfect as our government say, why the number of military objerctors increase so much every year?
	And, besides of this, we can find another big problem: what does our society with the people who refuse to do this obligatory military service?
To answer this question, we only have to watch the TV news: everyday, lots of people are judged and jailed because of its opposition to an obligatory army and to an obligatory social service.
	At the end, they are, in my opinion, the genuine rebels of our time; they sacrifice their liberty (not their ideas) to fight agaist a state that condemn them as if they would be some kind of killers, assassins or steelers.
Of course, if we see the TV news everyday we will see people who have commited much more offences than them (and, of course, this opposition to an obligatory army is not an offence for me) 	Anyway, this must be quickly solutioned, but not by us, but the people who have the power to do it (everybody knows who: Government, and Justice Ministery). Of course, I don't believe on its efficiency about reparing this awful error, because it would be a very large expent of public money. In times of social, economical and political crisis, this could not be possible (at least, that is what our government says).
	Because of this, I suppose that a good solution would be the formation of an army of proffessional soldiers, as we can see in other countries as U.K. or U.S.A.. This would mean a very large expent of money, but it would be a good alternative to our actual system of military service.
Anyway, I think it exists yet in Spain a group of people who are supposed to be professional soldiers, the members of the Spanish Foreign Legion; they are professional soldiers, well remunerated, that, for example, are nowadays acting as humanitary help in Bosnia. Because of the bad circumstances of that country, time has show us their lack of utility.
	Of course, as everybody can see, I do not believe in any type of armies, because of the enormous expent that they have and because of their usefulness. It would be better to expent all that money on covering the enormous social and economic deficiencies of our world.
	Besides of this, I think that, in a case of world war, our army (professional or not) would have nothing to do in comparison with the armies of the ruler countries of our world, U.S.A and Russia.
	At the end, if our country has to look for an intermediate solution, I supposse that having a professional army would be, at least, a good and reasonable measure.
