<ICLE-SP-UCM-0002.2>

For beginning, we can sy that this phrase ("Money is the root of all evil") has much to do with the reality and the society in which we live.
Currently, we can get news such as that one in which members of a family quarrelled because of prize money won in football pools; one of the members promised to share his prize but at the end he didn't.
In other cases, a lot of people have lost all their possessions because of their anxiety to play. They have problems with their families, friends and at work. So they need help to feel that play is not the most important thing in this life.
Nowadays, the lives of professionals such as stockbrokers are completely centred on money, so, they aren't interested in things like humanity, and envy is one of their problems. Stockbrokers are men with no scruples and their obsession is to get whatever they want although it means that the lives of other people are destroyed. And also there is a feeling that the values society places upon a person's work have become odd. However, there is one fundamental point to be said in favour of the stockbrokers and their contemporaries in other professions. They have done no more than go out and try to better themselves by hard work.
Money means power and everybody is trying to get enough money to feel that he has a consolidated position in which he has not many problems. This is no bad. But the problem emerges when we put money over virtues such as respect for the others.
We know that money is necessary in our society but that doesn't mean that money has to be the centre of all our desires and projects. This is an easy way of saying it but the reality is very different. Society makes the members of it to follow all its commands. We don't try to say that from this moment we don't have to earn money, but a clear statement is: money doesn't always bring happiness. Here, some people would say that money helps to get it. It's true, we can't live without money. Thus, we have to use money to make our lives easier but not to put down other people.
In conclusion, we can say that men has much to do with many problems that we find in our society but envy is an important part of them. We have to try to feel satisfied with our possessions although they could better. That doesn't means that we don't have wishes and hopes to improve them, that it is associated with our personal improvement and this aspect it is very important in our lives and what we expect from them. So we need to value our posibilities to know where we can get and not to fall in the wrong feeling that everything is possible with money (here we can think about the film "Indecent proposition").
