<ICLE-SP-UCM-0008.1>

Religion may well have been a powerful opiate of the masses in the 19th century, but it does not wield the shame influence today. Our society has changed or lost many of the tradicional values which flourished in the 19th century, including religion itself, and its has created its own new ideals and myths.
When Marx viewed religion as an instrument to manipulate people's minds and therefore people's opinions. He considered religion an opiate because it comforted people with the promise of a better life: regardless of your situation in this world, you were going to have another opportunity or new life in heaven.
I cannot know if Marx would have considered television an opiate of the masses but he would probably said that television influences people's lives and their opinions. He would have talked about mass-media because television is not the only influencing factor, although television reaches a wider audience, particulary in industrialized countries.Television has as much influence as religion had in 19th century and its influence can be negative as well. Among the negative aspects of television we can mention: Television can be considered as something negative when it is used as an instrument to support an ideology.This occurs frequently in dictatorships or authoritarian political systems.
People who are in power try to preserve their ideology, so that Television is usually in the power of the state in order to spread the dominating ideology and censure everything which is against the system. If people lack information then people's opinion can easily be manipulated by the system.
Publicity on television as something negative because it gives us a false image of the world full of marvellous and exciting cars, bodies, clothes, etc and publicity creates the necessity of getting all these things if you want to be a member of society.Publicity is an instrument of capitalism because it turns spectators into consumers.
Television as creator of new myths and ideals in XXth century which have much influence on people's lives.People no longer believe in God or in religion (specially in industrialized countries) Society in the XXth century has its own myths like rock stars, politicians, Hollywood stars, etc, in which people believe.Television is creating new idols for our society.
Television also as a way to spread culture which can be negative when a culture arises as the dominant one and other cultures are outshined. E.E.U.U. is the dominant country at the present time.It is imposing and spreading its culture through television, cinema, etc. Many people from other parts of the world are taking a foreign culture as their own, while theirs are fading.
