<ICLE-SP-UCM-0016.1>

Feminist and feminism are words which have been used in a pejorative way; they have been used as synonyms of mannish women, and it is not true.
If one looks back in former times, or even nowadays, one can find many situations, actions, and details which show how women were and are still being exploited, ill-treated and underestimated. Women are 2nd class citizens, and that is why "we must put up with anything, and what is more, we must be grateful to this manly society which permits us to do all the work that is rejected by men".
In the Middle Ages, women were decorative ornaments to be shown and made use of. They had neither opinion nor mind, but men were completely wrong. Although women were not asked, they gave some answers, and it was thank to the help of feminists that women have reached some rights.
I do not think feminists have done more harm to the cause of women than good, but I think male chauvinists have done it.
Men were who said the rules, who had the money, and the political power.
... and women had nothing (no money, no rights .....). Suddenly, women found out that they were "human beings", that they could be as intelligent, enterprising and capable as men. Women wanted to wear jeans and to show that they were worthy of respect (they asked for an opportunity to get what was a right). Feminists fought, and they were despised, but some important triumphs were obtained such as: the voting right, their independence ....Feminists opened women's eyes to something which we have been prevented from. Since then, many women are following their example, although there are still many difficulties.
A distinction between radical feminists and 'feminists' ought to be made. Radical feminists push men away. Men are women's fiends and women want to demonstrate that we are exactly the same as they are.
I consider myself a feminist; I believe in women and in our rights, and I would like to be considered as capable as a man, but it does not mean  that men and women are totally "equal" . Our nature is different, as well as our physical characteristics (We are complementary opposites), but in relation to our mental capacities no distinction ought to be made, being considered equal to men, it is the least one can expect. Nowadays, many women have finished their "fight" because they believe women have obtained the bulk of the aims, but it is not enough.
Many other women like being treated in the old manner, they like being "protected and spoiled" by their husbands, and they can not understand the way in which feminists act.
To sum up, feminists have fought and sacrificed many things in order to provide us with a better way of living, and it seems to me that it would not be fair if we accused them  of having done harm to us. Women's lack of decision, our cowardness, and our malleability have done a lot of damage to the cause of women, as well as the masculine mind which governs our society.
