<ICLE-SP-UCM-0019.3>

Nowadays we live in a society where the empirical and realstic thoughts and facts are the only valid. Nowadays we live in a cement world where those who live in their own crystal world are considered to be crazy. A functional and practial world where a dream, an instant of imagination is unuseful if you are not n artist and you shape it into a work such as a novel or a picture.
The English writer Robert Herrick`s poem "Dreams" sys, "Here we are all, by day; by night, we`re hurled/ By dreams each one ito a severalworld" and show us the most outstanding, and odvious, value of dreaming and imagination: their importance in each erson`s own role; not as any other charasteristic, but as one of the most determinative factors of each one`s personality. Our different dreams, illusions, and reative imagination make us be different eole ... they underlie our individuality ... they put a stroke of colous in the grey and routine every day activity. In a time when everything is said to be imposed, when everybody is said to be equal dreaming and imagination are a claim for individuality; i a time when one does not agree with the situation or is simply tired of it, it is logical to dream and to imagine ... it is normal to practice one of the few activities you can do without any snags, in a personal and incontrollable space.
In line with the previously saiod, it could e said that the actiity of dreaming is healthy for the "spirit". Freudian philosophy unforlded the idea that night-dreaming a way of calming our frustrations and a way of expressig the hope for all our objecties and illusions, as satisfactory as night-deaming ...? When "thinking is doubting", as Unamuno (the Spanish existentialist writer) said, why not dreaming?
When people lose their little illusions and dreams, they lose their interest in life in a big scale and get tired and depressed. Chinese philosophy has also its opinion about this matter when Li-Tao-Po explains that life is full of small nice things and that the art consists in being able to find and appreciate them. These samll things, these small dreams have to be a constant in our lives, we have to set up aims and goals that motivate us to obtain them; although we usually are not able to get them, the most impostant is the motivation they cause in our "psyche". Thus, in a certai way, God is a dream a hope, because we (believers or not) do not know if he exists or not, one can possibly feel him, or not ... it is the same case as a dream we do not know if we will be able to get ... but, anyway, God, as a big hoe, motivates a lot of people.
So, these little dreams can grow into bigger and bigger dreams, illusions and ideals, and a few of them pass from the personal to the social sphere. Martin Luther King, L. Da Vinci, Coleridge ... among other philosophers, scientists and writers, are known to have had a dream, to be dreamers and get important thigs thanks to their imagination, illusions and dreaming. So, if this world were perfect it would not be necessary to have to power of imagination, but as it is not, the faulty to reate our own combinations of real or unreal ideas has been profitable since the human being became "sapiens". Thus we can take advantage and enjoy the previous good people`s creative works, from arts to techniques.
Therefore the good dreams of a lot of people who shaped or worte their thoughts and illusions have also a social value known by all of us, but we do not think of the fact that these eople who wanted to improve their situation and the situation of the world were big dreamers, and at first little dreamers. So, now better than ever ... for you ... for us ... dream ...
