<ICLE-SP-UCM-0021.3>

	Since sometime, we are destroying nature and we do not care about it. Nature is being ruined in different ways. Some of these ways are avoidable (like the black tide) and other ways have difficult solutions (like the acid rain or the disappearance of the ozone layer), but all of them can be solved if we really want to do it.
	One way for the destruction of nature is the black tide. The black tide happens when a tanker has an accident and as a consequence of this, it loses its petrol in the sea. This has irreparable consequences. Some of them are: the settlement of petrol at the bottom of the sea what kills tousands of animals and plants, the animals eat big quantities of hydrocarbons and this produces their poisoning, the fishing dissapears of the affected place, tha animals suffer deformations, changes in their behaviour, and so on. A solution to the black tide is the design of the hulks of the tankers according to the danger of the accidents. Some examples of the destructive black tide are the sinking of a tanker called Braer near the Shetland Islands and the sinking of the Aegean Sea tanker on the coasts of La Coruña (Spain).
	Another way of destruction is the elimination of rainforests. Rainforests are vast areas of life and they are very rich in species (flowering plants, trees, mammals, birds...). These forests are very important because they regulate the world's climate and distribute moisture, many medicines come from them and from their use by tribal people and they absorb the carbon dioxide. But rainforests are being destroyed by the human beings and our uncontrolled use of wood (for making furniture, paper...). The process of destruction is called deforestation. The deforestation produces very dangerous consequences: extinction of species, the soil without trees becomes eroded by the rain or the wind and this process is called desertification, the remaining trees cannot absorb all the carbon dioxide and this produces a concentration in the atmosphere, the carbon dioxide absorbs the heat from the sun, but it cannot leave the atmosphere, this increases the temperature in the Earth and it is called the greenhouse effect... The best way in fighting against deforestation is a reforestation movement all over the world. But this is very difficult to achieve because it implies the cooperation of countries.
	Another way is the disappearance of the ozone layer. The ozone layer protects the Earth against the ultraviolet radiation from the sun. If these radiations are received in big quantities, they can cause damages: increase of skin cancers, increase of some kinds of sight illnesses, changes in the growth of plants... The ozone layer is disappearing because of the use of products with nitrous oxide which destroys the ozone. These products are the nitrogenous fertilizers and the aerosols which contain the CFC substances. This type of aerosols is being removed and replaced by a harmless type, but its expansion will take some years.
	The pollution of the atmosphere is also very dangerous. The atmosphere is polluted by the utilization of certain substances. One of these substances is lead which is used with petrol and goes out through the exhaust pipe of the car. Lead is a poisonous product and its utilization is now being abandoned because of its danger. Other substances are the nitrogen oxide and the sulphur which are more dangerous than lead. These two substances are used in power-stations and expulsed to the atmosphere through chimneys. While they are in the atmosphere, they become acids and then the rain becomes an acid rain. This acid rain makes the soil acid, it damages the crops and the forests and it destroys the life of lakes. The problem of pollution is difficult to solve because it involves to change the products.
	Some attempts of solving these problems are the recycling process, the elimination of CFC substances in aerosols and the use of petrol without lead. There are also many organizations that fight to conserve our planet and make of it a better place for living. The most important of these organizations is Greenpeace that combats all over the world against problems like black tide, ships transporting, radioactive materials, extinction of animals... Other organizations are the Earth Love Fund that wants to create global awareness for environmental issues and The Rainforests Foundations that fights for stopping the destruction of rainforests.
	But all the attempts and the movements do not have enough repercussion because people are not really concerned about nature. If we continue with this passive attitude, we lead nature to its irreparable destruction.
