<ICLE-SP-UCM-0023.3>

Science technology and industrialisation determine to a great extent the basis of modern world cuture. Thios is the reason why our life is so mechanical and automated and, becuse of this, we are not used to dreaming and letting our imagination play a role in our lives.
The advances of technology are visible in all aspects of our daily life and nowadays it is very difficult to live without these advances, although in many cases it would be suitable to do without them.
Technology in general, is developed and expanded quickly and it has shown numerous and advantageous advances in th world of industrialisation. There is a clear example, this is the invention of the computer, which consists of an electronic machine that can quickly make calculations, store, rearrange, and retrieve information, or control another machine. The use of computers makes the industrial, comercial and administrative activities easier and more comfortable, but it also prevents us from thinking.
	As technology gives us the solutions for so many problems we hardly use our capacity to think and develop our imagination. Because of this, our life is, in this sense, automated and mechanical.
	The remarkable advances in technology and industrialisation offers us, on the other hand, a lot of activities for our spare time and these activities do not let us use our imagination. One of the examples that makes this point is related to children`s toys, because nowadays children play with technological toys (i.e.: video games), and these toys do not let the children develop their imagination and, in many cases, they are so inactive that playing with these toys does not permit physical exercise. For example, some years ago, children used simple bicycles, but now they use "bicycles with motor", and one of the negative consequences of this is that children do not develop their legs. And much more similar examples could be mentioned.
	In general, children like these toys but theyneed to doexercise to be healthy. Besides, with these toys, children do not think as much as they should.
	If this subject is viewed with pessimism, the world could become too static in the sense that all activities will be very accessible, for instance, it is possible that in the near future instead of using books looking for information in a bibliography, we only have to sit down face a computer screen and use its keys, sothat, we can get the information that we are lookig for.
	The power of modern technology and industrialisation is growing progressively in our society, and it provides us with such an inactive life that we have not got time to day-dream and to meditate on ourselves, and in this way, we can become very canculating with such a programmed life. All this can make us look like programmed machines that do something determined in every moment of the day.
	It must not be seen as a maddening situation, al least not yet, because man has always dreamt and used his imagination more or less to attain his purposes. Otherwise, he could feel a great emptiness inside him.
