<ICLE-SP-UCM-0005.2>

What is harassment? The dictionary says that is a behaviour which is intended to trouble or annoy someone. Maybe this definition is not exact because the harasser can say that he didn't mean to "annoy" the victim.
Unfortunately most women suffer from street harassment but the worst thing is that sometimes we blame ourselves for it. You look for excuses, "It's what I was wearing", "It happens to all women" and this is not fair. Besides other women consider street harassment as compliments which is false.
I don't like compliments of strangers, I'm not an object, or a car or a dog that needs to be evaluated and besides compliments always show respect or admiration and in "Hey babe nice ass" there is no respect at all. There was an study in Glamour magazine in 1992 which proved that what we wear does not matter, neither the age of the victim. They asked seven women of different ages and completely different dressed and all were harassed, so we should stop blaming the victim, because it has been proved that women get unwanted attention on street no matter what we wear.
As I said before, there are women who enjoy with this kind of behaviour of men. Callie Khouri, screenwriter of Thelma and Louise says: "A woman who enjoys being yelled at on the street is a woman who has been socialised to think that she is valued and defined by her sexuality".
This can also be a kind of defense because if they consider harassment as compliment they don't have to make a scene.
The point is that street harassment to many of us isn't trivial. It damages our self-esteem, cause we are being consider as just sexual objects. Our brains are not important, only our body.
Something that really annoys me is that my public space is being reduced. Because I try to avoid certain areas presupposing that I'm going to be yelled at. I pay taxes and I should be able to walk for everywhere without being violated my mental space.
What It really gets on my nerves is when people (even women) think that I should be proud of being harassed or when women say that we should care about more important things than for being whistled. Of course I do care about other things refered to our rights but that doesn't mean that I have to accept little things like a waiter giving me the diet Coke I didn't order, and my husband the beer I ordered. Life is full of little details and if we want to change things we have to "win all wars".
I've reached a point that I can't stand this street, harassment so everytime I am attacked I always answer back to the molester, I didn't use to do it because I thought that everybody was going to look at me or blame me but when you first answer you realised that the aggressor gets all the attention not you. I usually refer to their mother or sister in order to make them realised that I'm also a human being. For example, if a man says "Nice tits", I say "Would you like your mother or sister being said that?". But also depends on my mood, sometimes my answer is a little bit "stronger". The man usually feels uncomfortable and embarrassed. But of course I'm not stupid, you can only answer if you are positive that he can't hurt you; I would never answer in the end at midnight with nobody near me.
Naomi Wolf, the author of The Beauty Myth gave me a great advice in her book. If more and more of us spoke up, maybe fewer men would harass.
