<ICLE-SP-UCM-0009.1>

Not everybody is worried about the prison system. But it is an important subject to be taken into account. It is a common feature in human nature to be concerned with the problems which they are closely related to, But, what is the use of bothering?. At the end of the eighteenth century, Voltaire, Rousseau  and Montesquieu promoted the idea of prison as a mechanism of rehabilitating delinquents, As Rousseau told in his book Le Emile, humans are good by nature, but society corrupts them. The question in matter is to know if the goal of imprisionment is to rehabilitate or to punish. The nowadays society is getting more and more retrogressive and agree with getting rid of "this disturbing people" and enclose them, the farther, the better, The prison system is a controversial issue. First of all, a part of the sector of the society is pro prison as a good method to punish the criminals. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth; if someone kills s/he has to be killed, however, it does not make sense that what someone is against at, makes exactly the same, We can clearly see that this is not a solution at all, Other sector consider prison as a warning, a way of preventing people from commiting offences, It is true that there are persons who would do atrocities if prison would have not created that now they do not do. On the contrast, it has been proved that normally, the fact of going to prison does not refrain people from making a crime. A society should not punish its crimials, it should rehabilitate them.
0n the other hand, rehabilitate lawbreakers is not as easy is it looks like. First of all, a great amount of money would be necessary, and if so, it would last long time. Prison, that should be a way of integration, has turned to a vicious circle. People who go to Jail do not rehabilitate, quite the opposite. Sometimes non guilty persons go to prison and they become corrupted there. Also, when an exconvict is looking for a job, s/he can find many problems, because people are very reluctant to do it. So, integration is a very hard task.
To sum up, we live in a world where there are more and more problems, such as delinquence, dropouts, a calamitous administrative policy. There is no money and it is necessary to look for a good solution. Prison is nowadays a fixed and a consolidated institution and it is almost impossible to change it. However, it is worthwhile and with everybody's effort we can manage to obtain it and live in a better world with a common work.
