<ICLE-SP-UCM-0005.3>

	A crime is a very serious violation of the law, this definition is very general but it is as broad, because there are a lot of kinds of crimes. Some examples of crimes could be these ones: 	a) Murder: in this kind of crime somebody is killed and perhaps, this is the worst crime because if something is robed it can be recovered but, if someone is killed, that person is not going to live again.
	The most common reason to kill a person is by revenge, but it is true that today a lot of people is killed for others causes as money, drugs...
	b) Robe: in large cities everyday a lot of people is robed though in little towns and villages it can happens the same. Nowadays, people have serious problems with their jobs or they are unemployed and haven't got a lot of money to live so they must robe to continue living. This is an important reason why people robe but, the main problem is that young men have drugs and it is very expensive. If they want to contitue having drugs, they must robe because they haven't got enough money to buy it. The majority of thiefs are people who haven't got a stable job and that have drugs so the problem is frightful for the thief and for normal citizens who are robed.
	c)Rape: in these last years, it can be watched in television that many young girls are raped not only in the street but even in their own houses's street door. This is very common so, young girls are worry when they are alone in the street by night.
	The rapists must be "mad" people, because a man which hasn't got problems in his mind doesn't rape anybody.
	To pay the crimes, criminals are put in prison during a time that is different according to the crime that has been done. This is the only solution that govenrment has studied to pay the crime but it is not a good manner of resolve a problem. When many criminals that have been in prison serve their sentences they are left into society as they were when they commited the crime so, it is sure that many of the criminals are going to kill and robe again.
	In this way we can not say that the problem is solved. The correct manner of aliminate the problems is that criminals have spychological therapies with doctors because, the problem is not in their hands but in their minds.
	According to what has been explained, the crime doesn't pay in our society but, it does not mean that in other time or place it happens the same. The meaning of these words is that christian people think that if they have done something bad in their present life, in their future life arter they die, they are going to pay the crimes that they commited in their past life. This is a very important idea because in Spain, for instance, the majority of people are christians but, there are a lot of criminals so, there is a very great contradiction. If this is so, it is because people have the necessity of robe and, if they can not do other thing to live, they forget the religion and robe and kill. This is very painful but it is sure that crime does pay in other life.
