<ICLE-SP-UCM-0008.2>

The Army is a hierarchical organization of armed men with the capacity of holding a invader, leading the war on the outside of their countries and maintaining the order inside. Over the centuries, the importance and the structure of the Army have reflected the geographical position, wealth and the technical development of the nations.
Nowadays, borders has been set and countries have entered in a dynamic of economic unity, leaving all the armies in a second place. Therefore, the number of their members, their usefulness and the development of their duties have been changing in order to comply with the new neccesities.
Armament has been developed enormously and the military tactics have changed. Moreover, fortunately wars among nations have been conspicuous by their absence, and these countries even have joined their forces by creating great military groups, like the `Blue Helmets', in order to defend common interests.
So there is no sense in the idea of a large army due to the lack of utility. Specialization and reduction of soldiers have been made necessary. Governments are tending to form professional armies.
U.S.A. was one of the first pioneers in this objective, and has demonstrated, like in the Gulf War, that the most important things to win are to dispose of the most advanced armament and highly qualified soldiers.
In 1973 the american army carried forward a change in its system of military service. Firstly it would be replaced it by a selective service - professions considered the most useful to the society, the most qualified students... were excused from doing the military service. Later, a system of volunteers was established. This also has worked in G.B. and Canada alike.
Spain and France tender, although in a slow way, to the creation of this system. At the moment they follow a mixed system of compulsory and voluntary recruitment.
I consider the disappear of the compulsory military service the only way to bring about a professional army. Not only does today`s youth lose a school or labour year in the complete development of their economic future, but quarters are also a waste of money, since soldiers do not make anything productive.
The Army does not have enough economic resources in order to give a satisfactory military education and training for so many people. Furthermore, the majority of soldiers have no interest in becoming a good soldier. They are only there because it is an obligation.
In conclusion, a professional army is worth the trouble, since  it  is formed by soldiers full of excitement  and eagerness that know what they want and what they are doing.
This also could be considered as another employment proposal for young people. The Army gives them the opportunity to study and learn a job. Then they finish their training, they are ready to vork in the Army and earn good wages.
In this way, the Army increases in quality. It will be able to demand it results.
