<ICLE-SP-UCM-0014.1>

In other times when a person was outside the law, s/he was inmediately put into a dark prision and subjected to all kinds of psychological and physical agressions. In such situation, once the criminal finished with the sentence, only one idea came to her/his mind, that is to say, taking revenge on the world outside, the guilty of her/his misfortunes.
Nowadays, it has been introduced a new plan in prison based on the possible criminals rehabilitation. This plan consists of a great amount of activities which are focused on improving criminals' integration in society.
The plan has been welcome; our civilized society longs to live in a perfect world without any kind of, let's say "defectuous beings". The experience has proved that punishing criminals did not work at all; the more cruel the sentence was, the more criminals sprung up. The prision system was crying out for a change based on a more human procedure and this plan of rehabilitation could be the perfect one.
Before examing the new prison system, let's make an introduction to the meaning of rehabilitation and what society understand by rehabiliting its criminals.
Metaphorically speaking, the rehabilitation system is a kind of people restoration according to some patterns imposed by society. Since these patterns are made up by a materialist society, criminals rehabilitation will consist of the possibility of getting a job to reach a good economical position.
Once we are established the meaning of rehabilitation, let's see to what extend this new system is still an utopian social project but, at least, it offers a new perspective towards criminality.
Previous to any objection, we must appreciate the great political efforts which are being displayed in order to make the rehabilitation project success: not only a high quantity of money, but  also the presence of a qualified staff. Pedagogues, psychiatrists and teacher are looking for the best ways of training criminals for working life. On this point, several strategies have been established. Let's name the most important ones: taking into accout the individual capacity and achieving criminals' motivation.
In order to develop the natural aptitudes which criminals possess, we can observe the introduction of a great variety of activities: from mechanics course to cooking or pottery course, and even some kind of intellectual course is available. This variety is an important feature because it avoids criminals choose activities to which they are not really qualified. On the other hand, by means of this kind of choice criminals can forget the word "prision" for a moment.
Training criminals for working life also requires some atractive point. The courses must be highly interesting in order to get criminals' motivation. Again, one of the main objective of this second strategy will be to make criminal forget about their situation and their lack of freedom.
Therefore, in both strategies we detect the same hidden purpose: to make criminals forget their unfavourable situation. In this attempt the teacher is going to play an essential role, not only as the person who teaches, but also as the person who learn a new reality: that of the human being who is called criminal. Here it is that new perspective that we mentioned above and also the real success of this new system: learning about criminals and not only teach them.
When a teacher stars training in prison, s/he realized at once how utopian the rehabilitation system is. Many criminals do not want to be a model citizen because it is an absurdity. In a way, this feeling of absurdity is quite understandable; it is absurd to prepare criminals for working when society is going to reject them as workers. There are many examples of former criminals not finding a job because of the lack of confidence. So the wonderful working life they met becomes a nightmare at the street.
In so far, the teacher's task of training criminals for a job does not work. However, when s/he is asking whether training criminals is worthy, s/he utters a clear "yes!".
According to the teachers, the confusion stands in the word "rehabilitation". Personaly, they do not aim to turn criminals into workers as if they were magicians; what they really want is a bi-directional education in which criminals learn something more than tecniques for a job and teachers earn something more than money. Both criminals and teachers are exposed to new perspectives in life: criminals have the opportunity of enjoying that famous perfect world of love and care and teachers find the human side of these criminals.
Teacher perfectly knows that many people who are in prision come from a comfortable life, and already know where to go and work when they leave the bars. All teacher wonder what kind of rehabilitation these people need. In this sense, the successful is not going to lie in how many criminals are ready for working life but how criminals are ready to doing so. If some criminal find a job but s/he is not solidary with her/his colleges, the teacher will fail on her/his mision.
To sum up, we can say that rehabilitation system is an utopian and rather absurd project insofar as there is not clear who must be rehabilitation: whether criminals or society itself. However if we substitute the word "rehabilitation" for "education", the project will be successful in two directions: society (teachers) regarding its criminals with a better attitude, and criminals considering as part of this "perfect world".
