<ICLE-SP-UCM-0001.1>

Television is the reflection of people obsessions. It is loved or it is hated but nobody is indiferent to T.V. Some people think that it has arrived too far, but others are anxiously waiting what television is going to offer next.
Nowadays, in Spanish television, there are some programs on fashion which have been very criticied: "reality shows" and others which are named: rubbish programs. They have provoked many different reactions, it has been suggested that public prosecutors must see that kind of programs before their public broadcasting, and analize their content.
In Spain there are five television channels, two are public and the others are privated. All of them have reacted to the accusation of "rubbish T.V.".The private channel, Tele 5, is going to include theatre in its programming, the TVE channel (la primera cadena), has canceled the program "Perdóname", a "reality show" about people who have offended other people and now they want to be forbidden.
Actaully it has been declared a "programing war" between the different channels, it does not matter if they are public or private ones.
It is known that the main programs are: football, "reality shows", "sitcoms" (in which the plot is always developed using the same characters and the same set, as in "Cheers"), "soap operas" (there are some famous examples, "Dallas", "Dinasty", "Falcon Crest"...) and good films, so the competition is clear, all the channels broadcast the same type of programs and advertising at the same time, this is the solution they have found to avoid "zapping" and the loss of the audience.
Many people protest against the broadcasting of these programs, but general directors of the different channels explains that television only broadcast what their audience wants.
Some sociologists say that during crisis periods people want to see programmes about fiction, but a special one, "Reality shows", have that kind of fiction, because it seems incredible that, for instance, one person declares his/her love to another in front of millions of people.
Sociologists add that people feel better seeing other people life, when this life is better the audience identify with them, and when it is worse, audience is happy because their situation is not so bad.
This type of programs can be dangerous, mainly for children. The explanation would be that they are not ready to distinguish both realities: T.V. and real life.
It seems clear that the different channels are not worried about the culture and the intelectual level of their audience, they only want to keep their audience level and to earn the money they can get with the advertisements.
Minorities, like children, are not invcluded in the programmings. They are not an interesting audience, they are not very numerous and the most important thing, they have no money to buy the products that the channel  includes in their advertising.
Besides, actual cartoons are very criticized, the reason is that rhey include too much violence. The opinion of psychologists is that the most of children or young people who become to be criminals, do not watch television very much time, but what is true, is that the concept of violence is changing.
Other problem that psychologists remark is that a great number of people is obsessed with weight, many people want to get the perfect fit, to have some figure and so on. It is a consequence of television influence in which "image" and "beauty" seem to be the most important qualities.
Some people consider that cable television is going to be the solution to all these problems, we are going to have access to 30 channels or more just paying three thousand pesetas per month. But others think this type of television is going to have advantages and disadvantages.
The most imporatnt advantage is that we are going to choose the program from different thematic channels, then if you are very fond of films or sports, for example, you can pay the channels which broadcast only both of these things. But a very importance disasventage emerges, and psychologists are terribly worried about it: teleaddiction.
Teleaddicts are people who spend 6, 10 or 12 hours watching television, and when they do not do that, they feel very sad or unhappy.
People dependence on T.V. can be a real danger, nowadays according to some studies, Spanish people is watching television at least, three hours a day.
We spend the most of our free time watching T.V., the explanation could be that during periods of unemployment, crisis, etc. television is cheap, in addition to confortable and easy to use.We have not to make a great effort to switch it on.
It is said that television is chewing-gum ofr our brain, but it is proved that it wins to the theatre, music, cinema, and literature, and here emerges the problem: Why?
Some critics say that, to control television influence there should be a clear programming legislation (which generates other problem, the exact meaning of the word "control") but meanwhile we can choose: "to switch on or to switch off".
