<ICLE-SP-UCM-0040.3>

	Military service is a basic matter of discussion in the western democracies nowadays. But his system has an old life.
	Military service was born after the French Revolution in France. The new political system created the concept of national defence, based in a popular army formed by normal citizens who must serve the common interest of the society. This army fought against the profesional armies of the old monarchic states of Europe to defense France and it obtained many victories. The system appeared as an example of the new regime, the democracy.
	Little by little democracy extended all over Western Countries during the XIXth centuries. As a result of this new reality military service changed the old armies. The young men of these countries (normally the poor young men because the rich boys payed to save the obstacles) were forced to spend some years of their life learning to be good soldiers. In the XXth century the two world wars were an example of the use of these young learners. A great deal of the died like animals in terrorific battles.
	After 1954 military service continued as the base of the armies though it was softer each year. But the problems of the Vietnam's war to the American youth produced an historical change. The professional army appeared newly in USA during the last 70s. Great Britain initiated the new policy and the last years many countries are thinking to do the same.
	Nowadays the countries which maintain this system have an important social problem. What to do with the military service? There are three main points of view all over those societies: One part of the public opinion think that it has to continue as it's at this moment. Other group prefer a mixed system, based in a reduced military service and an important number of profesional soldiers. Finally some people support the idea of an army formed totally by profesional soldiers. The first group is very small. It's formed mostly by old people who lived the last times and suffered a military service which lasted several years and offered to the young soldiers a hard life. The second opinion is normally followed by the different governments and many political parties. They think that an enterely profesional army is very expensive for a country and it's necessary to continue with the military service though this could last less time and be more confortable. The last group of people is formed principally by young people and citizens of middle or low class. They are fighting aginst, in their opinion, and old system based in the use of the youngest part of the population as cheap soldiers, during more or less one year of their lifes, year which never can live agin. Finally they think that the modern armies need modern soldiers, especialized for the use of the complicated arms that our armies have nowadays.
	The future of the military service is not clear. Unfortunately there are many wars all over the world. By this governments continue spending great amounts of money for military use. And they think military service is still necessary.
	My opinion is near those who fight against the military service. The world has changed very much and the armies has to change too. It's true that there are many wars. It's true that we need armies yet. But these armies would defense us better if they were formed by profesional soldiers, completely dedicated to this job. On the other hand a modern state could pay them perfectly well and perhaps it would be cheaper than the maintenance of the military service. Finally, I think of an ethic problem, perhaps the most important for many people. To kill a human being, is to learn it necessary?. I don't agree.
	To sum up, the situation in this moment is a difficult argument. What will the solution be?  I hope that the military service dissapears for ever and a modern army occupies its seat.
