<ICLE-SP-UCM-0054.3>

	 	Already in the nineteenth century, in the middle of a promising industrial Revolution, Victor Hugo was able to predict what the consequences of an each day more advanced humanity would be for a helpless nature. Since the stablishment of our modern concept of society, progress has always enjoyed a sort of Green Card within it, as a result of which we can nowadays have the benefit of a longer and more comfortable life in many aspects.
	But sometimes happens that in order to achieve success in a particular field, it is necessary to sacrifice something else, and the scapegoat of progress is our enviroment. The Greenhouse effect, the Ozone layer and the Amazon are well know topics that we have all heard and probably talked about lately, and even though solutions that would stop these and other environmental problems have been proposed, the bank accounts of some of the wealthiest men and countries in the world do not allow the improvement of the earth's health until the year 2000: far too late.
	Arrived at this point, the word "ecology" bursts into our minds, and the most radical progressist stop paying attention to a "well-known by everybody" bunch of nonsense, but there is one more side-effect besides all these vegetarian politics that predicts a dead humanity long before the end of the earth's existance. For example if we talk about the undreds of animal species that are in danger of extinction, and we concentrate for just a moment on those who are sacrified on behalf of mankind's hunger, we can inmediately eliminate the ecological part of the grievance and focus on a more practical one, which is the side effect above mentioned: the disappearance of a single animal specie provokes a chain reaction that eliminates other kinds of animals and that in consequence damages also the flora of the affected habitat. There is no need to highlight the role that humanity plays in this destructive chain, but just in case: we set the fire that will end burning us.
	A good example that illustrates all these empty words is what happened to the inhabitants of Easter Island, in the southeastern Pacific ocean: They arrived to the island by sea, and after two generations of high exploitation of both flora and fauna the place became a trap that did no offer anything to eat and that could not be left because there were not any more trees to build boats with. The population disappeared. This is the other side of the extinction of animals, of fish for example, but of course to organize more efficiently the fishing might suppose not to find every kind of fish we wish for in our market, and that is undoubtfully less comfortable to us.
	Nature is warning us about its degradation in many ways: Entire woods are burned and become deserta due to the poor reafforestation, if there is any reafforestation at all. The Ozone layer decreases quickly and threat us with a brand new skin cancer, if we insist on exposing ourselves to the sun five minutes more that has been recomended. The dissapearence of the rainforest in The Amazon would mean not only an important reduction of the falling rain that the earth needs to keep on producing life, but the destruction of the biggest and most important  natural lung of our world, with the consequent lack of oxygen.
	Everybody that has bothered enough to get some information knows all these facts, but very few of them would quit their great refrigerators, hair sprays, cars or polyurethane wrappings in order to decrease the CFC's emissions to the atmosphere. This is only one example of humanity selfish misbehaviour, for it is, I repear, much more comfortable to have and use all these things than to spend time trying to imagine what will  remain of the earth in a near future.
	I suppose that if Victor Hugo was alive today he would add to his prediction the sad thought that even though humans are the most intelligent animals nature has ever created, they are also the only ones who are ready to kill themselves, but of course they will do it from a comfortable armchair and in front of a nice T.V. set while they rave about those trashy environmentalists. Anyway, those who know the less will die the happiest.
