<ICLE-SP-UCM-0017.1>

Two very basic ideologies lie behind tha History of Humankind. It is the struggle between the two of them which makes our society evolve creating, this way, our history. These two ideologies are "the Progressive" and "the Traditionalists". There is of course, a whole range of possibilities between them, but all moving within the espectrum of what we could characterise + traditionalist.
During the current century, technological advances have been so atonishing that the "slow" traditionalists have been struck with so many new gadgets and goods. So much is this the case that their idea of keeping a "moderate" pace in their motion and evolution has been utterly impossible.
Life has become a kind of race in which the human mind is battered with images and ideas at such speed that assimilation seems hard to believe. The mind has no time for its own, and , this way, no self ideas are created. Logically, no imagination or dreams are produced by those brains overflooded by external data. I believe this to be the logical succession of ideas in the minds of those traditionalists, who attack technological advances, which are beyond their level of understanding due to the quick development of science in the present century.
Allow me first to consider the definition of imagination, and then I will be in a position to proof them right or wrong. The first thing I read in my dictionary when looking at the word imagination is: "The ability that you have to think of and form pictures or ideas in your mind of things that are very different, interesting, exciting". *
How does a scientist come up with an invention without the use of imagination? Are not all unbelievable advances (computers, chips, spaceships,...) products of somebody's imagination? Is not, in fact, the XXth century tha moment of History in which more advances have taken place and more discoveries have been made, in comparison with the rate in which the past proceeded? I can only think that people who believe in the lost of imagination due to our technological world are not considering the very evolution of our society as a product itself of our collective and individual imagination.
* Collins Cobuild English Language Dictionary (1987), William Collins Sons and Co. Ltd.
Permit me to forget about this conception of imagination and think of it only as a synonym of dream: a dream is "an imaginery series of events that you experience in your mind (while you are asleep)"**, reads the dictionary. And then it classifies it as a near synonym of unreality (the parenthesis within the definition are mine, considering that nowadays the fact of dreaming while awake has become part of our schema for "dream"). And what are the artistic manifestations but the attempt to  evoke those dreams, to express those fictitious ideas that wander in the mind of the artist?
Let us compare, then, the amount of artists and movements within the different dimensions of art (literary, musical, pictorial, ...) that existed in the previous centuries with those that occur now, in the current century. Only with a superficial glance at the gallery of main artists of our times can we outnumber the ones of previous centuries. Is that a sign of this "lack" of imagination? Who are they but the emblems of imagination? All unique, sigular, exclusive,... all human, in fact. For, what are all of us, each of us who walk about the world, but individual warriors og imagination who defend it scrupulously every second of our lives!
'It is imagination a very distinctive feature of the human': this idea rattles in my mind continuously. I look for my dictionary again and search for human, humankind, mankind,... but no account of imagination is taken. And I hear a cry in my mind, a claim that says that we are nothing but imagination.
