<ICLE-SP-UCM-0004.3>

	All countries in the world should have armies, but if there is no help for it, they must be professional.
	The question I have allways made myself is : what we want armies for?. The answer seems obvious: to defense ourselves in the event of war. But if we analyze the problem, we see two different opinions: the states wich hold an army because reasons of defense and the troubled regions (with border problems, for example) which use their arms to attack.
	If we found some way to avoid the trade of arms, the armies wouldn't have any sense because they would not obbey their objectives of defense and attack; it happens that the countries which meke the weapons are the great powers like USA, England, Germany, Austria... and other "non conflict" nations, that have the army to defense themselves. They could stop manofacture them so there would not be trade and the weapons would not be sold to the countries involved in belics conficts. And without arms, there would not be armies, but of course, the trade of arms just like the wars are a business so, it is practically imposible to stop the production of amrs.
	The church thinks this way also, it does not give any justification to the wars (they are sin), and they should be resolved by dialogue.
	Against these opinions about not having armies, there are another ones which are in favour of them, and in this case, I think they ought to be professionals.
	In my opinion it is very logic the idea of having voluntary soldiers in the army since a citizen can have a lot of reaons for not wanting to carry a gun in his hands. These reasons are ethical/religious, political ideas (the supporters of a movement for independence who do not want to serve one's country) or simply economical reasons, like loosing one man's job to go to the military service.
	These people who do not want to soldier have nowadays two situations in some countries (including Spain): the ones who are called conscientions objetors that serve one's country by making the social security benefit (P.S.S. in Spain), or the ones who declare oneselves: "unsubmissive" because they think that the social security benefit is a punishment or something inside the military system.
	It seems that the foot-citizen believes each day less in the army (Spain has the highest number of conscientions objectors in the C.E.E.); so if there is an army it might be professional, and formeb by people who believe in that and want to dedicate their lives to it.
	And now that it seems like having a solution, the question is: why do no have all countries a professional army?. They main reason is that there should be necessary a lot of money to mantein it, and not all nations can afford it. I add another great objection and it is that the soldiers become inhumans like machines to kill without feeling.
	I think that nobody can oblige citizens to participate in wars that they do not understand or simply they do not interest its purporses.
	In my opinion it is unfair that innocent people suffer the misfortunes of a war. If two governers of different countries want to dispute something like a part of a land, they should solve the problem themselves without involving the rest of the population.
	I think that wars are ridiculous, and therefor, arms and armies are absurd too.
