<ICLE-SP-UCM-0024.3>

	The principal ai of this essay is to establish an analogy beween what the German thinker, Karl Marx, once said: "religion is the opium of the masses", and the possibility of saying that nowadays the television is the opium of the masses. This so popular sentence was said in order to explain that unless the economical explotation of human beings disapeared, the religion would still exist, because th worker resigned himself and waited 	Until the last 30 years religion was the institution which moved the masses; it was compulsory to go to church, pray and do ones duty to God, but now, it is the television which moves the society to accept the established systems. It seems to bew a manipulation of the spectators to make them believe that, if there is money, everything is possible to get, and problems easy to resolve with extremely rapidity. Nowadays, television makes the spectator sleepy, resigning himself with the things that he/she is living and putting hopes in which the images are showing to him/her, nearly always a happy style of life programme, that do not correspond to his/hers. Television projects people out of the real world taking us to a fictional one. This provokes a rupture between this concrete world in which we live and an ideal world which we are all addressed.
	But, although, T.V often shows real themes, from day to day it provides so much informatio that there is a moment in which it is impossible to react, yu feel tired of the given information that at last it does not affect you. And this is dangerous. In U.S the television has become into something mystic, people would do whatever to apear in it. Peoople go and tell lively, in front of a million of spectators, the secrets best kept in their lives, which is pure explotation.
	The so called "stupid box" is in a way, a waste of time (see the reality shows). Television is the principal instrument, that around it, the family and the group of friends meet, but it makes impossible any kind of communication. Everyone is recieving and collecting the "bombing" information without being possible a dialogue.
	Television s suposed to be a drug for ignorant peole, who believe what is being shown but it also give a sight of the world we are living in, in which the most important thing is money. But it would be unfair to classify all programmes as they were bad, there are some which are quite interesting and they would be a cultural focus directed to different groups in society: children, youth and adults.
