<ICLE-SP-UCM-0025.3>

	Censorship in Western Society is a reality. Despite censorship, as we know it, is claimed to exist only in totalitarian systems, there is also in democracies an underlying predisposition to use that "blue-pencil" in many areas of modern life. However, it is cunningly hidden.
	Sometimes we get involved in artful mechanisms of olitical censure, without even taking notice of it. To illuestrate this, a phenomenon known as "Cohercive Healthism" or "Health Fascism" may be a good example. It refers to the excessive concern society expresses about health and physical aspect. Therre is, nowadays, a great effort dedicated and many hours devoted to "body-cult", time which is not spent in cultural improvement. However, Governments seem not to be concerned about the lack of interest of their citizens in becoming informed about social, economical or olitical problems. Culture is not fomented, whereas it is known that "the more youknow, the wiser you are". At this point it seems necessary to question whether it is convenient for a Government to have people informed, cultivated, ready to criticize every little situation they desagree with; or is it better to mantein people charmed with body enchantments?
	Of course this is not a proved theory, but a possibility to be contemplated.
	Then, it could be said that the difference between the role of censorship in totalitarian systems and its part in democracy is onlywhether you are allowed to express your opinion freely or not. But this is not the main problem i ragard to censure. The danger is that of not being able to form an independent mind. In this case, the menace is even greater in the democratic system, because you maynot even become aware of the censorship which is being exerted upon you.
	On the other hand, it seems unfair to consiuder human-beings as mindless sheeps which do whatever they are commanded to. We have minds, waiting to be "exploted", and desiring to discern by themselves.
	A different kind of censorship is the one caused by society itself.
	Since we are born, we are tought to behave in a determined way and to applycertain generally accepted rules to every single act in our life. But, what happens when somebody leaves these rules out, when he/she acts differently? He/she will probably be considered to be rude, worthless, uneducated and maybe even left on the fringe of society. Nevertheless, we have these conventionalisms so deeply inculcated in our brain, that we go so far as to identify them as natural, nerly innate human aspects. A alpable instance of this fact is Daniel Defoe`s novel "Robinson Crusoe", in which a man is isolated from civilization, but still does not abandon that "English" point of view and who, essentially, recreates his lost way of living.
	On the contray, these conventional axioms prove to be just the oposite when they are taken into analysis: theypresent themselves as a system to restrain our insticts, which, after all, are the most natural expressions of living beings.
	What does occur when someone actually discovers this artificialness which acts as the pedestal on which "modern societies" are built and decides to focus his/her attention on the irrational aspects of human being and to confer them the importance they deserve? Will not he/she be branded a demented or unbalaced person? Possibly Nietzsche could give us an answer.
	Moreover, even we can take the part of censor over ourselves. Certain thoughts are being constantly refrained and not at liberty to become fully developed. This is called "Psychological Censorship", and constitutes the axis of a theory widely elaborated by Freud.
	Conventional as well as Psychological censorship are charateristic only of developed societies (as the Western Society). Besides, they facilitate their being called "Civilized Society".
	To sum up, censorship is cunning and used many disguises to hide in everysingle parcel of life. We only need to srape off the surface to descry it, take hold of it and, to the extent that it is practicable, put an end to its existence.
