<ICLE-SP-UCM-0053.3>

	 	For some reason or other, the students have realized that going to University is something that has been seen in lots of different ways along the years. To go to university 50 years ago, it was considered something very special, for those people that could pay an university degree. These people belonged to an upper social class.
	But in reality what was important for people at that time was the fact of feeding their families and living with what little they had left. In consequence these people left off stydying at the age of 6 or 7. They learnt the essencial, for instance, to sum up and to read. A proof of that is our parents. Only few of them had studies and the only thing that they want now is to give some studies to their children. The studies they always wanted to have.
	But the situation from the period of Franco has changed. People started taking an interest in the knowledge and they started to educate their minds. but cities were full of people from different places of the country. They tried to obtain better knowledge of important aspects and they would get a good job.
	The thoughts of people started changing and instead of preferring to be a plumber, a bricklayer, etc. The people preferred to be a doctor, a cientific, etc. Society started an industrialization.
	Universities began to be very important and they spread over all the places along the country.With the finality that all the youngsters could study all they wanted. Although this situation is better, people should build more universities of those degrees that are more chosen like Journalism, Law and engineering. For example in Madrid, only a Facult of Journalism can be found, which causes that the marks are higher each year and the number of students are very limited.
	Because of the large number of universities and students, education is going to impoverishment. The only thing that teachers try to do is teaching the principal knowledge of the subjects to the students and they do not penetrate into reality that is the most important aspect.
	At which we start our fight in the direction of a job in the real world. A lot of times this method is justificated as they cannot teach 2,000 students (as sometimes happen) in the same way to a reducide number of students like 50 or 100.
	This is the reason why some students go on strikes in order to improve the educaion and not to have the problesm the students find when they finish their degrees (5 or more years).
	But the answer of the representatives about this problem is very clear: "There is not enough money so that this situation can change". This situation is very grave because the students carry all the consequences over them.
	Another problem found in universities is that all is taught theoretically and they do not teach to treat in practice all the knowledge which has been learned by the students. Some universities like sciences ones realise practices for students, but in case of Facults of Arts this situation is very different. Because in them, none practice is taken.
	For this reason people start studying modules or Professional Formation where you are prepared to get with a major facility a job. In these methods you get an experience that is the main thing to get it. The consecuence is that now people are looking back because to go to university is not considered the best way to obtain a job.
	For the reason of lack of experience in the universities, the students make an appeal towards the Ministry of Education: 	- Give more money for the students will be better or they will have better preparation. Spain will become a big power.
	- Increase the number of grants in order to be able to study in other countries and they acquire more knowledge and experience.
	- Descend the taxes of registration fee in order that everybody can go studying, etc.
	You can come to the conclusion that universities are not as wonderful as they seem. Students have more difficulties than we think. Some difficulties were showed along this essay. But society should fight against these ideals.
