<ICLE-SP-UCM-0052.3>

	 	This sentence is something very usually heard, with more frequently than we like it. It is a very widespread opinion that the crime is not sufficiently punish.
	There are several types of crime: There is a kind of criminals who attact against the persons and others who attack against the properties or institutions.
	The first kind of criminal are the worst because is very sad that a person attempt on a property, that he/she steal something or that he/she make any material or economical damage, but it is worse that he/she try to hurt to another person; I refers to cases of violation, abuses, ill treatment and other similar things. Law is, al these cases, when it is less hard with the criminals it is very dificult to show if a person is guilty or not guilty because the trieal is only based on the testimonies of the two parts, and very frequently teh judge can not stablish the truth and by the other hand is very dificult for a person who have hurt any harm damage to prove it, even when somebody is named guilty the pain is very soft and very few times the criminal end his/her pain fully. And, too, there are a lot of cases which never arrive to the court because a great number of them are not denunced.
	By the other hand we have the criminals who attack the properties of attack against institutions.
	In this group the crimes are more important and frequent but they are less punished. Usually the important people are the one who make it. There are a great number of embezzlement, swindle to public finance and people who have letf with money from his /her own enterprise. There are, too, people who steal into a small scale, they make robberies in small shops or in private residences  but we don't know why if this last are catch the normally end their sentences; sometimes they must go to prison or must pay a quantity for their freedom, they almost served. But the first, the people who steal in a greal scale they very few times serve their sentences and as much bigger is the robbery the sentence is smaller; the people who have a great politic power, I am refering to Spain, always get a very good lawyer and they are pardoned most of the tinnes, but nowadays the people is beginning to be tired of this, so the Government has begun to take seriously the subject. Contrary to what the political and great men thought because the Government can not run counter to public opinion, they must held an image. But even now the most part of these cases are still without sentence so in this part of the law the power is on it.
	In conclusion the crime does not pay, or at least like it must be, there are times that the sentences are too heavy and othertimes the criminals are pardoned or sometimes they don't serve their sentences fuelly and there are other many tiems that they are not called to trial and it is due to people think the crimes does not pay because many great bussinesmen have a big prestige that they don't deserve. And with the smaller criminals this not happen, law is more eficient and they pay their crime more frequently than the others criminals.
	In my opinion the law is not equal, and there are times that a crime is more paid than other similar, only based on the importance of the criminal who have make it. I am disagree with the reduction of the sentences because I think that if a person has ben punshed with a determinate sentence he/she must serve it. So the crime does not pay by everybody in the same way.
