<ICLE-SP-UCM-0009.3>

	 	Imagination and dreaming have had, and will always have, a very important role inside society, both inside this modern society and inside whatever exists - a past or a future society-.
	But answering to those people who think this society is dominated by science technology and industrialization, we will see their opinion under another point ov view: where more imagination is needed than in creating those devices that human being has made, not only in our modern society but through the whole history? We are referring to that imagination is present in the technology itself.
	Though technology and industrialization have a more complex definition, they are something like the vanguard, like the most advanced discoveries in the field of sciences. But behind of all the science world's complexity, we found the figure of the inventor.
	With an historical point of view, inventors- both modern and ancient one- have always needed some kind of fancy, some dreams which could be realized.
	The fact is that an invention can be defined like "the material realization of an inventor's dream". So we can deduce that the inventions have a great part of imagination and dreams, even in the most modern one. For example, Mini Compact Disk join usefulness and "dreams"; to condense the typical 12'7 inches vinilium record in a handable 2'5 inches plastic one, but with more utilities than anyone could have thought thirty years before; storing not only music but animated images with a high quality, computer information with an amazing speed of resolution, and many others utilities.
	That fancy has existed in ancient inventors as well, though its figure have changed with the past of the time: the inventor is no longer a bohemian personage with long white beard, locked in his laboratory, but in many cases they are teams of people who belong to great multinational companies - as in the example of the CD whose invention was developed by Philips company -, or belong to universities, where a lot f investigations are carried out; for example the University of Pensilvania developed the electronic calculator nearly 50 years ago.
	There are people who think that technology and this society are guiding us towards another one more mechanized, more automatized in the sense that all our acts will be ruled and controlled by machines, however the human ability of imagination is an inexhaustible resource of dreams, illusions, and hopes which will always be present in any person's mind whatever his society be.
	But the fact is that the imagination, the fantasy, what surprise us, is present in the whole humanity as well as inside technology and invention when they create amazing advances and that they never stop surprising us.
