<ICLE-SP-UCM-0004.1>

From my point of view, it is impossible to think of a world without place for dreaming and imagination. Perhaps the reason for that is that I have always wished to become a writer. Can someone think of a writer without capacity for imagining? What a terrible thought!
I remember that when I was achild I invented a lot of fairy tales in which I put my illusions , my dreams, my fantasies and so on.
I have always felt the necessity to use my imagination. So I guess that people have felt the same than me in different skills. Even I also think that technology, science and industrialisation could not exist without imagination and creativity.
Life is not an easy task. The majority of population suffer a little at least. Then our dreams can be considered to be our refugee. This is the only place on earth where we are completely free. In our dreams we feel at ease and we try to be happy inventing things that are never going to take place. And for a while we forget our problems and we are able to get everything we wish.
This refugee is like a musical box or a jewel-casket where you can keep your secrets and you and only you have the key to open it.
Of course, we have to be realist. There are a lot of peoplewho seem to be dreamers. They are unable to be aware of the real life, however horrible or beautiful it is the objective world until now and this can't be changed by anyone.
On the other hand, apart from the positive aspect of the technology and industrialisation in which I have faith because it makes the human being,s life better, it is possible to find a negative effect of these on people. Probably this happens because human beings are unable to use them properly and when necessary.
I think that the development of the children is the most important to become a sane person. As we know, often happens that a child goes to show a writing, a picture or whatever to his or her parents and he or she is rejected. Parenst are very busy, very tired or very angry to be patient with their children. For them it is easier to send their children to watch televsion or play computer games.
This case is more typical in the cities than in the country.
This is a way of cutting down children,s imagination. Even the majority of teachers also cut down pupil's creativity either in their lessons or in their exams.
Imagination understood as creativity is necessary ti live a pleasant life. Routine is the big obstacle to creativity. One is used to doing the same things. Consequently you get bored.
Another problem is that technology provides us comfort but too much comfort. So we turn into lazy persons. There are a lot of  people who are used to going every place by car. If the car is broken they prefer to be at home instead of going on foot.
In conclusion, I think that a solution has to be found. A reconciliation between the world of technology and industry and the world of imagination and dreams would be a good alternative to live a better life. Of course, this is preferable to permitting the victory of the technology and industrialisation over the marvellous world of imagination.
