<ICLE-SP-UCM-0047.3>

	Imagination is a keyword throughout human history. Every culture from the beginning of civilization has had this virtue as a main column of its life. We know this thanks to the artistic legacy that has remained untill our time. If this had not been so, how did the Egyptians build the majestic pyramids with their labyrinths, or how could the great Fibias have only dreamed on the Parthenon? Artistic remains are the best proof of our need of imagination in life.
	Even today, dreaming and imagination occupy and essential place in our society, though they have, apparently, nothing to do with science, technology and industrialisation. To prove this we only have to glance at our modern life; each house is full of household appliances such as T.V., video, spin-drier, washing-machine, refrigerator, micro-wave, etc. The same happens in nearly every office where you can find computers, printers, wireless-phones, and probably a fax. All of them have been created by means of modern technology together with creativity.
	Another prime manifestation of the importance of imagination in our world is the roll that publicity plays in the market. thats to the image, Fashion, Interior Decoring, and other fields are selling their stocks successfully. Firms are always looking for gifted men, qualified for managing public as they like. They need such a kind of people in order to present their products in a surprising and original way.
	Never theless, whoever thinks that in our modern world ther is no longer a place for imagination and dreaming is not mistaken on the whole. Nowadays, it is easy to stop thinking and swallow everything we see aroun us. Authorities of a great number of countries are gettinng alarmed about statistics that show how children sit sown in their sofa and become "couch potatoes".
	But it is not enough to be alarmed by this passive attitude. We have to take steps to ensure that the problem will have a real solution. This is only possible by going to the roots. The change must begin from childhood because it is in this period when habits are fixed. If the child learns to use his innate creativity, it doesn`t mind what society will probably impose his while growing up. Creativity is something inborn that he is not going to lose and that will be developed during his life.
	Actually, the problem is not only related to children. Housewives are so occupied with their jobs that they have no time to prepare nice dishes and put the finishing touch of imagination to them. If you ask someone whether he/she likes walking, painting or listening to music, he/she will answer you: `Oh, hes, of course, I like it. But I can`t waste my time with this sort of things.` The fact is that when we have some spare time, we stick ourselves to television, or we go to places where everything is done for us. The only reason for such a thing is that we are losing our imagination when we get caried away by nowadays life-style.
	We need to search for the real meaning of imagination in order to understand how is that we are losing it. Imagination suggests the ability to invent new things or ideas in our mind. The problem is that we have misinterpreted this meaning so we belive that imagination is a waste of time if it is not applied to practical things. In our age, people only use imagination for their benefit in relation with technology, experiments, etc. But when it simply means to dream and try to relax themselves, they reject it, prefering for example to switch on TV.
	We must intent to look into ourselves. We have to understand that we were created with the purpose of pleasing our creator. And, as we have been made in God`s own image, we have the inner capacity of creating for pleasure too. If we forget this, our society will be destroyed by those things which origins were product of dreaming and well-applied imagination. The machines we have created will deshumanize us. And then, those who think that in our modern world there is no longer a place for dreaming and imagination will be right.
