<ICLE-SP-UCM-0003.1>

The true statement written by George Orwell in his book Animal Farm was: "All animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others"; of course, this is a satirical statement and Eric Blair (George Orwell was a pseudonym) is really referring to the human beings. When I read Animal Farm, I liked it very much by several reasons: On one hand, George Orwell used an easy lexicon which can be understood by anybody without any previous special language skills; At the same time he used a high quality style which is good enough to consider the book as a masterpiece. On the other hand, the purpose of George Orwell is mainly to write a message for the reader (in this case is a satire of the comunist political system); if we focus on this last literary point, we can consider to Orwell as a writer opposite to "the art for the art's shake" doctrine and so opposite to Oscar Wilde who though that the most important thing in a literary work was the literary form and style. I particularly agree with George Orwell because I think that the good writers have a (without forgetting the good literary forms).
If we analyse the book we can see several different topics: Orwell is against the comunism and against the dictatorship; he thinks that propaganda is a manipulation of the people, Orwell thought that propaganda is the same that hypocresy and destroys many times the real history of the people and countries; People can be manipulated by the power in all ways (religious: if you suffer in this life, never mind because you will be happy in another life; using the technology and industrialization and so on).
In such a way Orwell wanted to destroy the myth of comunism and the myth of Soviet Union because he knew about the "purges" (destruction and killing of the members of the political opposition) in Russia (just before the Second World War). All the characters (animals) and events described in the book have their equivalence in the real history of Russia (just before de Second World War).
Orwell could not publish his book during the Second World War because in those days Stalin and Russia were allied with the countries which fought against Germany; but when the Second World War finished and Stalin was not a friend but a posible enemy, Orwell published his book and it became in a great success very quickly.
Anyway, the reader of Animal Farm can realize how Orwell is against the Utopia, the author thinks that all revolutions fail because the time passes and the first ideas of the revolution are forgotten (that happens even with that ideas which were good and fair).
Wereas we can focus on other different characteristics of Animal Farm, we can see too how the book is a satire or criticism done at one time in a bitter way and at another time in a comical way. Eric Blair used frequently the irony and humor; the irony can be verbal or situational and one example of this irony is for example the own title of the book: "Animal Farm" because at the beginning the revolution starts to improve the way of living of the animals and when at last the animals are managing the farm, the result is that the owner of the farm has changed but the way of living of the animals (except the pigs and dogs) have not improved and the animals work as hard as ever; another example is when the pigs learn to walk on two legs and they subtitute the old statement: "Four legs good, two legs bad" for the new statement: "Four legs good, two legs better"; therefore we can consider that there is irony in the title and we can see irony in the rest of the book too.
There is a humoristical tone when the animals behaves as human beings and in other events of the story, but at last the satire becames bitter and the reader feels pitty for the animals.
The author is not a good creator of characters but in the book he has not any problem with them because they are only animals which symbolize moral qualities; Orwell loved animals and he knew very well the behaviour of them; in this way, Eric Blair gives the animals the human capacity of thinking but the behaviour of each animal is defined by the characteristics of its own specie.
From the point of view of the narrator, he is only an observer, he is objective and he only tells the story in third person. Sometimes the reader knows a little bit more than the animals.
According to language Orwell thought that "clear language is the same that clear thinking" and so he did not like metaphores, similes or other different tropes or figures of speech and he tried to use words of everyday english when it was possible; he did not liked long, scientific or other difficult words and he did not liked the use of the passive voice when he could use the active one. So, in brief, when you read Animal Farm, you read a very real book with a simple and clear style and structure.
Why did Orwel write Animal Farm?:
Eric Blair was born in India; his father was a british civil servant and when Orwell studied at Eton, he discover ~e difference of classes (he was poor and most of the rest of the children were rich). Orwell was always in touch with different people (who had many times different conflicts), because he was interested in society and its problems in order to find topics for his books, and because he felt human curiosity (in that sense he shared experiences with unemployed people in the north of England and so on). Orwell had to work to live and to write so he was a teacher at a primary school or policeman in Burma (he felt guilty by the british colonialism). According to politics he was a man of the independent left (he wrote for the left-wing newspaper Tribune) but he never joined a political party. George Orwell took part on the republican side in the Spanish Civil War and he knew how in Spain and Russia the Comunist Party destroyed anarchists, trotskysts, and the rest of the opposition to stalinist line; he thought that the socialism established in the Soviet Union was a perversion of the original socialism and a tyranny too.
According to the above brief characteristics of his life we can see what are the literary sources of Eric Blair in his book Animal Farm (the experiences of his life and his beliefs).
Anyway, the moral message given by Orwell to the reader is valid for yesterday, today and tomorrow "All men are equal: but some are more equal than others; always there are going to be people who acts in a good manner and people who acts in an evil manner because badness and goodness are inside the human beings heart (in some people the goodness is the strongest side, but in others the strongest side is the badness);this difference is established whithout considering if the people are rich or poor,independently of the political system and the rest of conditions in which people could live. But of course, this evil behaviour of human beings is developed more in tyrannies or dictatorships than in a democracy which is not a perfect political system but for me it is the best one which can be choosen by a country or by the citizens of a country.
