<ICLE-SP-UCM-0037.3>

	Mr. Money is the root of all kind of evil even from an assasination to a war although everyone likes to get money.
	First of all, I should say that our society is divided into floors (classes), beginning with the lowest class and ending with the highest class. It is supposed that people who belong to the first one, have not much money or a lot of relationship with Mr. Money. On the contray, the highest class has very good relationship with him, but all of them would like to be very oog friends with Mr. Money, aren`t they. Why somebody would mind to gives pleasure for sometime although not for ever. After this time, when you have everything and you become rich, what happens then. Are you happier when you were rich or before then. Who don`t say that he would like to be rich but frankly, money gives us the happiness during months or years but after this time you  have to realize wheter you are or not really happy.
In this world, I know that the vast majority of things are bought by money and no more, and even the friendship. There are people who have been always rich and they are only happy with money and if they were after poor, they would not be happy or vice versa. In fact, when someone has a lot of money he always wants more and more, and he is not satuated. Nowadays, we can see, for example, Javier de la Rosa or Luis Rolàn. In both cases, I prefer to be not very rich but happy to be rich and not very happy. Money buys happiness for sometime but not for ever.
	Another point of view would be that the vast majority of the times, money carries you to the evil. Rich people when they have a lot of material things, they are satiated and they need to prove new "things" such a drugs or something else. Besides rich men when they have a family and, I think, that they are tired of them they look for a young pretty woman, destroying the family and besides these women are in love with the money but not with that man. Money makes handsome to men. It is not the same an attractive man in a "seat Toledo" car than in a "Mercedes car".
	Those people who don`t have money and suddently, due to any circumstance of live, are rich, not ever end very well. I know a case that, on my opinion, is very good for this theme. A few years ago, a friend of mine didn`t have much money but his father`s factpru had good luck and in a few time, they have earned a lot, a lot of money. But you will say : o.k., what happens. It is very easy. He is in the theme of the drug and his girlfriend is pregnant. She is 18 years old and he is 20 years old. He didn`t have anything and suddenly, he has everything. He thought, firstly that he hadn`t enough time in his life and as he was rich, he could do everything, without any law. Now, his parents are divorced and because of the problems that they have, one of his brothers has to go to tha psychologist.
	In conclusion, to have money is very good, why not, but no very much because it could carry you on until your end while money will survive and never die. The best is to be in the "second floor" (middle class), between rich and poor people.
