<ICLE-SP-UCM-0010.2>

First of all, I have to say I have chosen this topic because I think television has become the opium of the masses. I do not believe as Marx once said that religion was the opium of the masses, but I believe television is so now.
Television is really important in our lives and thanks to it we can learn a lot of things and be better informed, but we are, nowadays, depending too much on it. What I mean is that it is good to choose the programmes in which you are interested, but it has no sense to put the TV on just to do something because there are probably much more interesting things to do, for example reading, speaking to your friends or family,....... at least, this is my opinion.
The different channels suppose to know what the audience requires and they repeat the same kind of programmes all the time without warning . The consequence is that you sit down in front of the television set without any idea of what you are watching.
On the other hand, when you are watching a film, you just pay attention to it and you are then not thinking of talking about other problems, such as unemployment, corruption in politics, etc, so television, in that case, is avoiding a complaint, is stopping the masses. For instance, when a soap opera is being shown, people are crying about fiction problems(surely less important than theirs) and they forget, at least for a moment, their real problems.
Perhaps in the news you can see what is happening in the world, but it is said that television is controlled by the government and that news do not show the reality. But, anyway, if you feel emotionally affected by the poverty appeared in the news, you can get a clear conscience just by giving wome money to the charity programmes which are shown at Christmas on TV. Hard to believe? Unfortunately charity seems to exist only at Christmas.
Another example of the power of television is the great number of magazines which are devoted to comment on the television programmes and to talk about the interviewers, actors, and all the world that surrounds television.
Then, I wonder 'What is really important: to know what is going to happen next week in our favourite soap opera or to find out what is going on in our society and know if we can help to solve it or improve it? '
I think perhaps the worst fact with television is that it has changed our priorities. Although we have been very lucky to be born in the Age of technology, this does not mean we must forget what we are, what we want and that television must be here to be useful for the masses and not to be their opium Finally, I would like to say the solution is very simple: If we are able to limit its power over us, television can be very beneficial. Television should be just an entertainment, in the same way as going to the cinema or theatre, but it should not dominate the topic of our conversations or our way of life, as it does now. And, from my point of view, it's only up to us to avoid it.
