<ICLE-SP-UCM-0002.3>

	Science, technology and industrialisation have contributed in the killing of dreams and imagination but not as much as the limited vision of what life is. If the meaning of what life isn't had been defined, awareness of this killing of dreams and imagination would be clearer. Life is not only work or study, relax or weekend; it is nor seating in front of the T.V. while our time goes without or knowledge neither of the reaching of a goal with the object of a good economical income.
	The presence of a goal in life does not justife the lack of dreaming about other things that are not related with that goal. Sometimes goals become so selfish that its narrowness destroys dreams without which there is no imagination. If those small, selfish goals happen to be fulfil during the life time, then what. At this point dreams die and conformism take control over every one's life. But if those small goals go accompanied by a hard desire of helping others to develop and to reach a consciousness of being persons, our dreams will endure for us and for many others later on times. In order to bring into life these eternal dreams, men's imagination has worked all throughout History.
	Our parents and before them our grandparents got the desire of create a better world for future generations. Their goals were a most peaceful land and a more confortable one, so many of the suffering they went through others would not have to past. Unfortunately the dream of peace is not real yet, but we are still working in it with a vision of future too. They had advanced a lot in their other goal, and even with all those advances they weren't gotten stuck; they had always something in mind to converge on their purpose. In the tools they used to fulfil those dreams, the most outstanding were imagination and science. These together produced technology which has had two different places of being developed, industry or work and home.
	Industrialisation took away those jobs that noboby wanted as working with poison gasses in the factories. It also simplified tasks that were extremely complicated to to, a census for instance, or offices files or similars, that have been replace by wonderful computers. Industrialisation brought with it mass production. Mass production has reduced the costs of clothes, books, fodd and many other kind of things; this reduction made things accessible to everyone, providing a higher stage in life.
	The other environment in which technology has been introduced is at home. It is obvious that our homes are seeter than our grandmams' ones because thechnology. Think about how would be your house without the last century's inventions. Who is going clean the carpet, wash the thousand clothes every person in the family has in their closets or cut the loan? (If you have one).
	The benefits of this introduction of technology in both, work and home, are free time and, as noted before, a higher stage in life. Free time that is used in family, with friend, time for hobbies too; time to live and enjoy life. Time for dreaming dreams in which imagination will create a new, different world for our kids. A higher stage, not only because comfort, but also because a larger education, gives us different options about how to spent life, options that our parents couldn't choose.
	Finally, a conclusion can be drawn up enphasizing our first statement, that is: technology, science and industrialisation  have not killed dreams and imagination. They were tools by which men have transformed dreams in every day's life. Dreams creates technology through science and imagination. This new technology opens the door for new dreams with the desire of increasing that technology in order to create another new one using the same toolsn (science and imagination) plus old technology. So, nor dreams neither imagination have die. If somebody thinks that way, the only thing that person has to do is to remove the conformism from its mind and to allow dreams flow free into it.
