<ICLE-SP-UCM-0006.2>

First of all, I want to point out that I would sustain neither a professional army nor a military service because I don't like wars or arms. Though it seems impossible to stop fightings all over the world.
When I look at servicemen I notice a shadow of sadness in their faces which is perhaps the feeling of loosing nine months, in the case of Spain. Thus, in my opinion, it could be more suitable to have an army with a whole professional body of soldiers, or changing the "mili' By other hand, I consider both systems full of great disadvantages.
I don't know much on the professional army but I may imagine some drawbacks. The most important aspect -I think- is public money. It would be very expensiue to the country because of the salaries of its components. It is,in part, due to the danger encoded in their work. These components are thought to be competents but not enough to face a war and defend a nation by themselues. So, another problem, is that men over 18 would go to fight. And then, mothers would claim desperately to the unfair justice: Why do we need a professional army ?
Also the shortage of high technology armament would make prof. army an easy target I refer to Spain, of course.
And, what about the disadvantages of the military service ? As I wrote before, servicemen lose a lot of time because the system doesn't occupy them well. As a result, some soldiers feel useless.
It is a period of their lives in which is very easy to tempt them with drugs, alcohol and other aspects which are able to change personality and future. These wrong aspects help them to forget whatever bad moment that usually happens under the pressure of their `superiors'. Sometimes , high commands forget the meaning of `humanism' and practise some rough treatment.
If you want to read something more on disadvant. go on with this paper. I want to deal with Spanish armament, which is rather obsolete. Not only guns but also planes are very old. May you imagine what could soldiers do with these arms ? I prefer not to do it. I think that it is necessary to obtain some new armament or unless a modern one if the State want to face a conflict. I mean that our soldiers must be competent in the task but they need competent weapons. Nevertheless, a high technology armament is dangerous, expensive and requires professional people to manage it. Nine months are maybe enough time to learn the control based on practice. This fact implies a huge spending on munitions because those servicemen will finish their service and a few others will replace their positions, and start again on practices.
How could the system improve? Military serv.
A good option may be the specialization of the non-professional soldiers. For instance, if a soldier has studied a carrier, such as computer science, he should be asked for fulfilling a task related to that matter. It would be useful to the system and to the soldier because of the experience he may acquire. Soldiers may realize projects on diff. matters and also put them into effect into the barracks.
Maybe there is a problem with soldiers because not all of them have learned a carrer or a profession. There is a high percentage of young people who doesn't know too much. In that way, the system should prepare them with different short courses perhaps given by other soldiers. It is a feasible idea because they have time to do it. Imagine about 40 hours per month dedicated to learn, this multiplied nine months may teach a great deal. Courses on psychology or sociology or language among other  are really interesting and constructive. They can help people to harden themselves and resist this period without loosing personality, on the contrary, they should trust themselves easily whenever they were far from home. I recognize it is a great contrast to live at home with your family which implies a lot of carefulness from all of the members but specially from the mother  and to live in a cold and dirty place such as the barracks are. A place which avoids to feel human warm.
A wonderful idea is that they could sleep at home. Unless, any of them had to travel long because of the absurd destiny the result of a lottery  risking their lives in the journies.
I want to add that not everybody can bear the kind of relationship between them and commands the constant orders, the detentions, to be on duty which are rather stupid and unjust.
Also the `mili' is a hard stage in the life of men where they desire to have a job in order to pay their entertainment and be realized, of course But they do not have any money, they feel they deserve enjoyment, should it guide them to delinquency ?
By other reasons, I may hardly accept the military service. Primarily, the soldiers are like dummies their cloths and heads, their boots or arms are the same to euerybody which I interpret as the equal state of mankind, in spite of what they possess. I admit I like uniforms specially those used by mariners they make men more attractiue. It reminds me of Fred Astaire in his movie 'New York, New York'.
Second , it is important to know something on discipline, if it is understood in terms of training to produce obedience and self-control amid other aspects. It seems to me a paradox, I mean what high commands expect and what they sometimes obtain . E.g. confusion, drug addiction, xenophobia...
Finally, I believe that the world of commands and Government need a new structure because  perhaps they still did not notice ancient times haue passed a long time ago. Also, I believe that remaining under political reasons are wars which seem to be necessary in order to create a new world after the total destruction. When politics is in crisis the same happens to the economy and the society. Then it appears the shadow of war destroying everything and starting a new development.
