<ICLE-SP-UCM-0030.3>

	Our modern way of life ruled by science technology and industrialization do not take place for the most relevant features of the mankind: dreaming and imagination. This two items have always appeared in the human mind development. To take an account on this subject, we might look through the history to see how dreaming and imagination have been a very important of mankind.
	During the far period known as Prehistory we see how those men were with such imagination to make possible the invention of wheel. Ancestor civisization as the Greeks gave an important rule to this part of their minds. For example, the main support to explain their existence in the world was Mithology, which is an extraordinary process of the human imagination. Also in Middle Ages, people dreamed with magical castles with beautiful princess and dreadful dragons. Different artistical periods as Barroco or Vanguardism show us the value of the imagination. Nowadays, imagination and dreaming are setting aside in order to income science technology and industrialization. A magnificent evidence of this asertion is the way our children play. They pass the main part of their free-time playing with video games, computers and such "techno-industrializated" toys. They do not know how to play with their fellows without those "artefacts", or simply play with their parents. A similar process occurs when they grow up. Adults only think on their work, their computerizated work. They set aside their family life, their friends, all kind of relationship between a man or a woman and another, and they have adopted an automatical way of life.
	Technological science and industrialization is not completely negative. Technological science has given a significant advantage in medicine. A few years ago, there were a higher number of mortality owned to bad medical conditions. Nevertheless, this situation has changed thanks of science technology, which has improve in mortal sickness and the way to present a large number of others. In the other hand, industrialization has improve our daily life. Almost everybody have a confortable house, a car and differents consumer goods in industrializated countries.
	Although science technology and industrializations are the main support in our stage of life, we must not set aside imagination and dreaming. Everybody have to dream and imagine because a human being need these two important items to develop completely the mind. In order to do that, we ought to teach our children how to play dreaming and with imagination. Moreover, we should let fly illusions and learn to dream more frequently. We are human being not computers or machinery.
