<ICLE-SP-UCM-0007.1>

It has not been possible  to discover the limits of the imagination yet, therefore, I do not believe that some scientific advances can set the boundaries. The technological progress make dreams come true quicker than ever, thus, they are in the service of the imagination. While human thought is subject to man and not machines, there will be imagination and , so, evolution.
We start from the point that "to imagine" is the mental faculty which represents images of things. To imagine is to represent a thing in an ideal way by means of some images.
Some of the most revolutionary scientific advances in the twentieth century are the ones related to the information technology. If we apply the previous definition of the verb to imagine, to these adavances, we will have a vast field of images to develop our imagination. Also, if we add that man, by nature, dreams, that is, represents events in the fantasy while he is sleeping, to my understanding, we have a clear conclusion. While man exist, he will dream and consequently, he will develop his imagination.
The images to combine are more and better with the current resources, so, man will imagine in better ways.
I don not think than human being can't ever stop dreaming or imagining, except that, something or someone dreams or imagines by themselves, that is to say, something that transmit them what they have to dream. It is so, because the imagination is innate in all human beings. In the case of existing such advances, it will have to dream or give us something that replaces our dreams. But to do so, unreal things, desirable and better than the present ones, it has to be varied because it doesn't exist nor it won't exist nothing of what people don't get bored or tired although it was perfect.
Apart from being varied, these variations can't simply be at random because, as it happens in fashion, the final result come from certain patterns that even are not established. Besides, they are thought or imagined without any kind of combination that was already done.
In that case, I do believe that it will not exist a machine or something able to imitate the human imagination.
We can go further, simply by imagining a real mechanical, electronical and dominated world by the industry, in which all of a necessities are covered by the machines, even that they can evolve by themselves. In that situation, man would find that the only possible thing to do for him is just dream and imagine in other worlds. It will never happen because we would get tired and wanted to change it because of our characteristic way of being.
Within few years, the virtual reality, for example, will allow us to live, experience, do and represent dreams and imaginative ideas in a fictitious way. It will make us to go further quickly. But, not because of that, man will stop dreaming, but all the opposite. He will have to dream to be able to manage the machine. First to make true his dreams, we have to have them.
