<ICLE-SP-UCM-0022.3>

Of course, it must be admitted that the concern of human about nature has increased in the last decades, but there is still only one active defender of nature out of ten people.
Human does not pay enough attention to nature to make possible a positive change in the situation of our forests, rivers, seas, in the treat we give to anials that live there ... a change in the whole planets. Many people have realised that lack of concern and have created a number of associations that suggest ecology as the proper way of living.
There are different kinds of ecologic assoiations depending on their "incomes", which determines their sphere of action. There are global organizatios and local organizations if we attend to the geographical area they operate in; but other classification can be developed if we consider what aspects of nature they work with. Green Peace is an exaple of a global association; there are representative branches spread all over the world and the whole globe is their geographical area of action. Green Peace can be also taken as an example of those organizations that work with all aspects of our eviroment -- flora, fauna, seas ... And on the other hand we can take as the example of local association the one named "Eki", which acts in Basque Country, Spain And ADENA, although it is a global asociation, it deals only with fauna. But despite of these apparante differences, they all have the same aim: protecting our environment.
The proliferation of such ecological groups is an evidence of the concern about nature; but at the same time that this concern has increased, the agressions against nature have raisen too. That is why the porpuses of these associations are difficult to fulfill. The tree felling, the pollution of the atmosphere, rivers, etc, and the massive extermination of some animal species with economical objectives are something had to stop. Factories "hide" their chemical or nuclear waste spilling it into the rivers causing their pollution and with it, the death of thousands of creatures that lived  there; the toxic fumes of the farics pollute the atmosphere producing many reactions damaging for he enviroment like the greenhouse effect or the acid rain; poaches hunt animals of protected species in order to get money selling the ivory of their tusks or their fur in the black market; the uncontrolled and inconsiderate fishing is depleting the reserves of fish for future years; the spilling of crude oil effects not only the marine life, but also the sea-bed.
The mentioned associations try to void all these harmful conducts, but hey need the help of the whole population of the planet. Friends of the Earth, founded in 1970, for example, had got 270 local groups supported by almost 200,000 people in 1990, and it is for sure that that number has raisen in the last four years, but do you think that ten per cent of the population can arrange what the remaining ninety per cent have done to nature? The answer is obviously "no". They need you. You can be a member of one of these ecological orgaizations colaborating in several ways. One way is to mobilize yourself to the place where you needed and offer your help taking part directly in the action. Another way is contributing with your money, making donations to the organization. A third way is a combination of the reviously mentioned two manners, but it happens rarely.
Belonging to one ecological group you will help to improve the health of our planet, and at the same time youwill make a lot of friends and meet many interesting peole. But if you prefer acting independently, if you don`t like engagements, you can take steps on your own.
Of course, you cannot arrange the ozone by yourself, but you can stop using sprays with chlorofluorocarbon (CFC). The ozone protects us from the ultraviolet rays of the sun, which can cause skin cancer; so each time we put CFC in the air, we are in fact damaging ourselves.
You cannot stop the wood cutting in the Amazon, but you can stop wasting paper. The following figures will help you to understand how necessary is to act inmediately: In 1950, 30% of the earth was covered by tropical forest; by 1975, only 12% was left. An area of tropical forest the size of Britain is deforested every year. If this continues there will not be any tropcal forest in forty years. A great part of the wood of these forests is used to make paper. Each US citizen throws away the equivalent of three conifer tress a year; you can behave wisely and save paper. And preserving the rainforests we are also protecting ourselves. For example, the United States Nation Cancer Institute has identified more than 2,000 tropical rainforest plants with the potential to fight cancer. From these forests we can also get drugs to fight malaria (from the quinine), leukaemia (from the rose periwinkle), hypertension (from the snake root plant) and many other illnesses of diseases. So saving and recycling paper you are helping yourself, because you can some time need a medidine produced from rainforests sources.
You cannot clean all the polluted rivers and seas, but you can stop using bleaches. Bleaches as well as being a health risk, they carry on killing organisms in rivers long after they leave your home. So you are taking care both of yourself and your planet when you substitute these bleaches fro other kind of cleaners.
You cannot fight against a group of poachers, but you can refuse furs and ivory. A mink coat requires fifty dead minks; and for this reason 70,000,000 minks die every year.
You cannot make everybody substitute petrol for unleader fuel, but you can change your old car for another one with catalytic converter and try to spread that idea to your friends. You can also minimize the cuantities of plastic and other elements derived from oil you use. A plastic bag, for example, lasts several years in decomposing and during that time they dirty and make uggly our streets.
The groups tht have the power are able to take many steps to improve the health of our planet. In fact they have started to take them in the last decade. We must suppose that that new concern of the politicians attend to the wish of the opulation of balaned world. Some of those steps that must be taken by the group that hold the power are intensifying the vigilance of industries that produce toxic waste to ensure that they respect the laws stablished about disposals, to toughen up the pushishments imposed to the offenders against the laws that preserve our natural inhritance, or something as simple as placing specific containers for recyclable materials.
I hope you have understood the porpuse of this paper: people is realising the importance of our enviroment but you cannot wait until other people arrange what you should help to arrange as well.
