<ICLE-SP-UCM-0049.3>

	 	The actual prison system should be renovated in all civilised society because of the problems found in the prisons There are many problems, but three of them stand out.
	The first one and the most important is the existence of mafias. The criminals who belong to them, pay the functionaries who work in the prison in order that they could do whatever they want.As a consecuence of that kind of liberty, once a prisoner have entered in prison, he has to do all that these criminal gangs ask him to do, otherwise, he may be rape an even murder.
	The second problem has to do with the first one. Rapes are highly common in prisons on account of the great number of homosexuals and those that not being it, become homosexuals because of the lack of women.
	The last one is the problem of contraband of drugs due to the lack of vigilance and the collaboration of the officials who receive a comission.
	Some of the other problems, derives, on the one hand, from the living together of criminals of all kinds such as murderers, rapists, thieves and hold-up men, and prisoners who are supposed to be guities but in fact they have been unjustly judged.
	On the other hand, the prisoners expect, that after spending so many years in prison, when they became free, they will be able to live as if they heve never been there but as a matter of fact, ex-prisoners are not well-seen in the actual society and they are not accepted so life is not going to be so easy for them. Moreover, if they are free but the society does not help them, they feel themselves obliged to hold-up, attack or thief to survive.
	In Spain, for instance, the "Dirección General de Instituciones Penitenciarias" has realised that these problems, especially those of contraband and homosexuality are imposible to solve. They admit that it is not possible to stop the entrance of drugs since it is introduced by different ways, through visits, distributors and also officials. In relation to the diseases, they have decided to prevent the contagion of illnesses by distributing codoms and syringes free.
	The ideal of a civilised society would be to rehabilitate its criminals and not to imprison them in such a bad conditions in which they are living, to rehabilitate them with a sort of system which would not consist of taking them away from society, a system, which having the criminals under controlled in order they cannot commit any crime, provides them some kind of work. This work should be social work since they have done a harm to the society and in which they live together with other prisoners as well as with other people.
	But this kind of solution is almost imposible for two reasons, there would be many of them which want to rehabilitate themselves but also a big number of them which do not. According to this, it would be dangerous for the society to have all of them working more or less free under the supervision of guard, furthermore, it is imposible to guard so many prisoners which are working in different places, it would be necessary a great guard corp and also people who wanted to became part of this corp.
