<ICLE-SP-UCM-0021.1>

a) The evolution of English drama 1. Describe the conditions in which drama was performed in the Middle Ages.
	The audience and also the kind of play that it is being performed will determinate some of the elements that are used in a performance.  But also the economical possibilities as well as the kind of place where the play will be performed make the actors to choose the best way to communicate their role to the audience.
	The first representations of English drama have to be with religion.  The aim of adoctrinate the low social classes, in the Christian dogma, as well as the idea of make it more comprehensible to the people, determined the appearance of these performances.  The naves of the churches offered an ideal stage for a religious representation.   The actors, who will be churchmen at the beginning, and boys of the choir later on, will see a good place in the church to make a play which included procession.
	The church-yard and afterwards the portico of the church will offer a show in the days of best weather.
	Little by little the fame of this shows altogether with the desire of a greater audience make the plays to be introduced in a new kind of dynamic stage, a vehicle with wheels a kind of booth which will approximate these plays to a greater audience.  The scenery of this booth was very scarse, the public should do an effort in order to imagine at the moment of the Elevation that character was being elevated and not that he was climbing a few steps.  The stage was very reduced which had two characteristics: the movement of the characters was very reduced but at the same time the proximity with the public was greater.
	All the performances of this time required a participation from the public: to imagine things in stage.
	The secularization of the theatre became a great advantage for the English drama the characters became from being interpretated by churchmen, or members of groups of men from different proffessionas, to be proffessional actors, men under the pratonage of a noble man or an important person.
	The market place with an elevated platform will approximate the development of English Drama to the appearance (years later) of the inn and afterwards the theatres.
	The performance will become with the years (even centuries) an indoor performance and the performance in the open air will be sacrificed by the better sound of voices.  Today this seems a nonsense but at those year the effort from the character in cicle to be heard by a very closed and noisy audience was a great one.
	From the naves of the churches, the portico of the church, the booths; the market place with a rectangular stage we began to approximate towards the rectangular stage with the apron.  The stage starts its development.
b) Set works 4) In what ways does Marlowe make Edward II a sympathetic character?
	The figure of Edward II is presented as a complicated one.  In his person we see as if there were two kinds of faces: He his first, presented to us as a king, but we see that he is not a good ruler, he anteposes his personal desires to those of the kingdom and he is a man born with power who does not know how to use it.
	But he is also a human person.  A human person with a very childish behaviour.  We see how he plays with his nobles giving them titles and afterwards and at the moment taking them out.  He even plays with the crown, taking it out and again putting it on.  He is the king, he just has to ask what he wants but what he doesn't tolerate is indifference.
	At one point of the play, he is deposed and put into jail.  He is no more a king.  He has neither power nor any of his garments.  AT this point is when our view from Edward II starts to change.
	He moves from a character seen as not very sympathetic, a bad ruler and a inmature person, without consideration towards the others, to be a human person from which everything is taken out: his clothes, the power, little food is giving to him and even no-one speaks to him.  Marlowe presents us a person who as well as not being treated as a king is also bad treated as human being.
	How does he get it?  Trough the scene he describes he has few clothes on,  only a ring is left from his previous status which he offers in change of his life but he also looses it. The dump: he is covered by water till his knees.  A deplorable image of a king that is developing personally, he is learning how things are but it was too late, everything has changed.
	His palace had been changed for a dump room, his nobles had become his hunters and murderers, the festines in palace had been changed by being a hungry person; his person has not got any interest for others but now of has it for himself.
	The 'lion' which should have been associated with a king's character is shown as an innocent animal, hurt by the hunters.
6) What would you say the issues portrayed in "Twelfth Night" are?
Twelfth Night represents a good example of what is known as a romantic comedy, that in Shakespeare always finishes in marriage.  The light theme that it treats as well as the movement from turbulentia towards tranquilita are some of its characteristics.
	Love as an element by which everything seem to be justificated:  the broken promise of Olivia (not being a man in 7 years).
	The tricks that Viola plays being commanded by Orsonio in order to get Olivia's love.  And of course the use of male clothes that Viola does in the play, which allows her to be close to Orsonio.
	But in the relationships of the age, not only was love an important element but the willingness of the women was the main part to get married.  We see how the women's role were changing: they have a strong character and it is her opinion what would determine the marriage contract.  Women choose their partner.  The years in which marriage was imposed were disappearing.
	The them of the self-deceit is also important in "Twelfth Night", characters think they are better and more important of what they really are.  They happen not to be what other expect from them: Viola falls in love with Sebastian, Orsonio was not really in love with Olivia but he realise he was attracted by Viola etc.
	The character who says the truth to them in a free way (he was considered a fool so, he had free speech licence) is Feste.  He analises the characters and he knew how they really were.
	In the play it is also criticised the vices and pleasures.  The character of Sir Toby appears as an example of all the vices and pleasures of the time.  Food and pleasures are seen as good if they are within a measure.  A measure which will be represented by Maria.
	The music is also very important in the play.  The music represent many things: the possibility of imagining a better world, a balm for grief, like a medicine and also a way of incrementating the amorous sensations, the human feelings.
	We see then, a great interest from the part of men to please and convince women.  Men realise every element is important when it is love.  The expressiveness, the good usage of language, the music, the appearance etc.  Love is now a serious work. It was not easy to conquiste women.
