<ICLE-SP-UCM-0038.3>

	Religion and later television have been the opium of the masses in the history of the humanity.  From the prehistory onward, the man has followed blindly certain doctrines without analyzing the reality, as if he was delighted by some kind of drug.
	The need for believing in something superior and divine has taken the man to a ridiculous situation, because the man has done without the reason. For example, in the prehistory it was thought that there were several gods, and the priests offered human or animal sacrifices to those gods.  Some of those human sacrifices were voluntary.  The fanaticism has caused confrontations among cultures.  For example, the catholics were persecuted and murdered by other culture with much more power.  Nowadays the fanaticism has caused the appearance of sects and other fanatic movements, whose members sometimes reach the point of comitting suicide.
	Religion has always been a profitable deal, because it has moved great numbers of people. That is why many men have made use of the ignorance or the blindness of others. Many objects such as medallions or prints are sold in some churches. The Baticano is one of the most famous places where the religion has made use of the money of its followers, so some priests are richer than any of their followers.
	But the height of wrong is the sum of religion and television. About ten years ago there was a boom in U.S.A. television. Some priests had his own programs on T.V. They moved the masses to crazy and extreme situations, because T.V. is also a good way of doing use of people.
	Children, teenagers and adults are interested in television because of different reasons.  T.V. offers cartoons to children; modern serials to teenagers; soaps, magazines and news to adults. But sometimes it doesn't matter if the program is good or not, or if it has to do with the taste of the person who is watching the program.  Most people sit down on the armchair with the remote control in the hand like a "coach potatoe", swallowing whatever he is told by the program. They waste hours and hours  sitting, looking at the T.V. set, almost hypnotized by the magic of the lives of the characters in the films. And this a kind of fashion. Everybody in the street, at home, at work speaks about certain popular programs or films as they speak about economic, politics or football. That is why T.V. comperes have so much influence on the public opinion. Most people agree with the comperes on some ideas. Other are influenced by them. Because of this influence, comperes should take care of their words.
	Moreover, the T.V. publicity makes people get crazy for this or that thing, in doesn't matter whether it is a good or bad product. The T.V. set introduces into the eyes whatever it shows.
	In conclusion, as Marx once said, "religion is the opium of the masses". If he was alive at the end of this century, he would replace religion with television.
