<ICLE-SP-UCM-0029.3>

	Modern society does not worry any longer for dreaming and imagination. At present modern society`s way of life does not leave any free time for activities such as : imagination and dreaming. For instance if we consider a typical citizen daily life we see that it just includes workig, fast food and not really more than that. Therefore we can suspect that their main preocupations are simply money and power. However the situation changes when we look back in previous generations, even if the problem of money was the same or even greater it must be considered more as a case of necessity. The urge for material goods was not felt the same. Before it was more the expectation of buying something than the thing itself. It could represent a long time if not the rest of their lifes to get the money the object costed. Nowadays the feeling of expectation and hope have disappeared, for example if we want something, we go and buy it, and if we do not have money right at that moment we can buy it on hire purchase or we can use our credit cards.
	We maybe wondering why modern society does not worry any longer for dreaming and imagination. There are two main reasons which are science technology and industrialisation. The former implies most of all free time which we are supposed to employ in ourselves. However we do not really know what to do in our spare tiem, we just watch television instead or reading a good book, which could encourage us to dream and imagine. The latter, industrialisation, can be thought as a counterpoint of the previous one. It does not leave us any free time. At present jobs require constant attention and demand a lot of responsability from us. Therefore we have no leisure time for us. For instance when we arrive home we have still some unfinished work to do.These two reasongs carry some consequences such as no newborns and some famous illness: depressions or nervous breakdowns. As we live in a material world, we want to have everything including, of course, cars, more than one house, vacations etc. That is why women have decided to work as well, leaving no time for her to give birth to babies. The above mentioned responsability causes depressions and nervous breakdowns due to the following problems: taxes, children, our jobs and the most modern of all the fear of loosing our jobs, too many difficulties to be supported by a person.
	However not all are disadvantages. We have improved medicine. Some investigations are being made and some vaccines have been discovered.
	As a conclusion we could say that after having analysed the two main reasons why imagination and dreaming are no longer used, we could sum them up by saying that it is time the principla cause. Therefore if we have the answer we should find a solution for having more spare time. The most known method is planning. For example, if we plan our week, we should leave one day our of seven for ourselves, we would be happier and we will have more free time for reading and for dreaming.
	We must realize that imagination and dreaming are two of the most important features which differenciate as from machines and from animals.
