<ICLE-SP-UCM-0018.3>

One of the opiums of the 20th century is television. People in our tiem stay in front of the TV set for hours staring at the sily bo doing nothing but wating their tiem. Very often, not to feel lonely, the first thing one does when arriving at home is to switch the TV on. it is like having a date with your best friend. The most comfortable plan for fathers who have just got home, is to lay on the sofa gazing upon TV. Moreover this is more frequently when talking about aged pople. They will not go for a walk anymore because they cannot miss one of those engaging Tele 5´s "reality shows".
Children are possibly the most damaged by television. On the one hand they have become incoming since now they do not need any friend to enjoy their time. They just have to press the button nd that is all, an enjoyable time is witing for them. On the other hand it is said that television harms chldren since they do not develope properly their imagination. Their games are reduced to repeat the patterns which they have already wathed on TV. Furthermore iolent scenes which appear on TV t any time damage the innocent thoughts of children. So that very often we hear someone saying: "Children nowadays know too much ...".
The existence of many, and let`s say, miselneous programmes enourages people to keep watching TV. In Spain we hve four different channels, and some provinces have their own channels. Furthermore there also exists a wide variety of opitional channels which have to be paid. This extr channels focus on different aims: Channel Plus, for instanc, broadcasts premières, and the MTV telecsts musical videos and musial news all along the day. So if you are at home and you do not know what to do the first thing you do is to take the remote control and try to find what you most like among ll the possible choices.
Televisio constitutes the major distracting activity for students. Frequently students do not want to lose a lot of time wtching TV. But one they re in front of it, leave it and start studying seems to be impossile. First and foremost their conciousness will tell them to work, but they just do not pay attention to it. It becomes then a bad habit, a kind of drug that theycannot get rid of.
Indeed family reltionships are being increasingly damaged y the influence of TV, nd this becomes the most dredful consequence of television. Very often we see family meetings which are hold by the fire of a TV set. Dialogue is therefore broken y the insensitiveness of television. Father, mother, and hildren are absorted by the magic of its colourful animation. After all, nobody oblige us to behave like this; therefore it is not worth blaming a machine when the fault is ours. Hence we should start dosing the amout of television that we watched each day as if it were opium.
