<ICLE-SP-UCM-0009.2>

Televison is so well-known in our society that it needs no presentation. Perhaps one could think that in remote villages, far from big cities, people are less aware of this phenomenon, but this is not the case.
It is everywhere and it does not matter whether city or village, it is found everywhere, what means that the whole population shares information, events and even desires.
To some extent it roles our lives. It offers us certain objects which last being fancied by each of us, what nobody can deny. This is called `publicity' and in spite of the fact that it concerns various means of achieving the public, television is the main device for reaching the audience.
Such instrument enters everybody's life and sooner or later you get hooked to it. People spend (or perhaps waste) their time paying attention to films, soap operas, documentals, commercials and so on.
	What could be got in ancient times in a hoary church is transferred to television. Instead of searching inside us for a reason to everything, for the truth, we just prefer to watch television.
In the name of religion it had ocurred many important events,religion encouraged people to fight, to suffer unfair punishments or even to die.
Nowadays, it is oftenner that we listen to the television rather than go to church.
	This does not mean at all that religion has ceased to exist anymore but what was long before a means of connecting with people has happened to be relegated.
Television shows us all the things we are interested in, those which surround us or those from overseas.
It has to be said that the more popular an event becomes, the more it is shown on television and the more we get to know it.
	 It releases many worlds to our simple life, things which are too far from us to imagine and everyday we get more and more.
Television links people together somehow, and despite many disruptive influences, what cannot be avoided because of the wide range of information, we also enrich our mind.
	Without going out of our room, television brings us the whole world, thousand of images, ideologies, recorded events, music, etc. Thus we depend on it somehow.
	 Perhaps it could be possible to say that people can be moved forwards (or backwards) just because of television.
If someone wants to keep abreast of the times, he or she will have to be acquainted with television.
If religion was the first thing to follow, nowadays television is even the guide of our lives.
It is not so easy to get rid of it, even though you are willing to live without it.
Some families have more than one televisor these days, it is unbelievable that thirty years ago we would live  without television.
Religion has been alive for centuries, but television is a recent phenomenon that cannot be explained unless one takes for granted that the everyday thing's speed cannot be stopped from becoming more an more sofisticated.
One hardly wonders whether the given information is true or false, usually we cannot even say whether we like what we are given as a selective programme.
We talk to each other about the things we have already heard, we spend our lives, else our leisure time, watching television or at least having a look to those things that we regard as woth-seeing.
If it governs our lives, if it leads our minds as much as it does, we do not complain about it a lot. Few people decide to throw it away and not to hear from it anymore. It is also a fashion, like having a good hi-fi or video games.
Once one knows how many hours to spend daily watching television and, what is more important, what to see, it cannot damage you. It could help you in many situations or even teach you many things.
Even watching television you can attend a mass or buy things. New ideas are rising, you are not thought to be a passive spectator but an active one.
	Interaction makes you participate in contests.
	What is clearly assumed is that television cannot be stopped from being a part of ourselves.
