<ICLE-SP-UCM-0011.1>

There's no need to look at any newspaper where statistics are shown about how brand new Spanish graduates feel about the degree they will be obtainig in a day's notice . We would be pessimistic if we state the overgeneralized feeling of distrust held by young people in Spain when trying to get a job or on the other hand, may we say that we are realistic looking at the social situation in our country ?. Taking this issue apart , we could claim for our right to say to people waiting for us to work hard~how minimum our preparation and tools are when facing the real world outside the Campus. Five, six years,maybe more for some of us, represent great effort, confusion sometimes but the reality is the way it is. Talking to friends abroad , gives you the possibility of expanding social , working and personal development A tittle is nothing when you're immersed in the languages bussiness. Theory leaves on you a bulk of knowledge to be developed and furthermore , not all the theory is plausibly valid. People may think you're an expert but a light inside your head tells you they don't know the reality going around.
When you finish is when you start, but ...how? It's "Sturm and Drang", definitely. Patience for waiting , experience and confusion: this is the concoction we are obliged to suck up when applying for a job. In my opinion it's not all the teacher's fault: since they are human they can't emulate the Nietzche's model. It's a matter of lack of tools ,money , time and personal capacity. From this essay I defend their problems and claims. Sometimes,we get crossed about their faults but have we ever stop to think about their limitations!to think about their limitations> And even more, what will we be like when working? Should we all be the ideal teacher? Calm , easy going, and temperate at the same time? Expanding our look at other licenciatures the situation is clearly worse: Doctors applying for a job outside their field of study, Lawyers feeling discapacitated and sorrounded by thousands of colleagues, engineers earning a symbolic amount of money at working posts when they've been copyng with difficult subjects through their years of study.
But all in all , let's cheer up ourselves thinking we are still young an that better times will come for us. In the meanwhile,other countries are waiting for us where difficult mother tongue and interesting people exist. Thousands of Licenciates abroad expanding their knowledge around the world and increasing their capacity obtained around their years of study. We have the ingredients , Let's make up the cake!
Focusing on the point of this essay , I m going to analyse how theoretical our licenciates are.
Little by little you realise what the value of our title is.
We all may know different approaches in linguistics, some important aspects of cultural ~aspects of cultural life~in G. Britain and the States. Some useful hints to the interpretation ofHistory, Literature Geography, Methodological clues to be developed through years of experience But what about the language?Of course personal effort as well as capacity are unavoidable tools for you to develop your needs in writting, reading and teaching.
Side facts such as time, likes and dislikes vocational spirit for teaching and books availability throw out the main problems that either a linguist or a teacher finds when studying.
The possible solution should be in my opinion a better and much more developed network among classmates.
From my personal experience, I can assure to you that such an 'ideal'hasn t take place with my promotion.
The elementary level in theory is passed when your in the 5th year of your licenciate, but reinforcement on English Language should be taken into account by University Teachers.
A lot is known about top Universities and many of us are longing to go there either as assistant teachers or as students.
Our claim focuses on facilities such as grants scolarships and the like, some of us have the great opportunity of having one of those(even some have had two. Is this fair?)
The possible solution is placed on our desire to ask the Ministry for more supervision about this fact.
But it's been fought,and claimed such a number of times that people take this as an unconquered territory in educational policies.
English as a second language is nowadays something needed and studied by vasts amounts of people who are either self taught learners or enrolled in languages courses do practice.
Factual solutions should be those of a wider teacher exchange among universities. Experienced teachers in Spain are qualified as those who live outside our barrier.
Problems that take place when teaching abroad seem to be related to money, when getting your salary, but of course facilities do exist such as teacher s training courses abroad, possibility of getting a native family to stay with.
These are some of the commonest solutions that Spanish students take when deciding to go abroad to spend a year or maybe two years Some of us will take advantage of this and of course,Spain s economic situation forces you to do so.
Some cases where pupils look experienced teachers and their expectancies are not covered are explained by deficiencies in teaching.
The overgeneralized problem seems to be the lack of  information which is expanded through students.
Groups of students are caught up by adds in newspapers. Languages courses, well known au pair agencies give you the hint to get acquainted with several courses abroad.
Some important requirements, specially money and work experience put a break to your expectancies.
Let's ask ourselves about our own needs. It's something apparently clear but getting overcome by several thousands of paper adds become doubtful whether to choose one or the other.
Is this a problem or just a matter of decision?
