<ICLE-SP-UCM-0034.3>

	The power of influence of television in contemporary cultures has become seriously stronger during the last years.
	Likewise a harmful plague, the phenomenon of television has expanded very quickly through the modern civilizations, particularly among the youngest sectors of population. In this respect, it is estimated that three children out of each four living in the "First World" Countires use to watch tv among 4-5 hours per day, when the proper period should never be longer than 2 hours per day. These figures are reflected in tow different, as well as negative, consequences. On the one hand, an increasing aggresive feature in children`s behaviour is appreciated as the result of the excessive abuse of TV and mainly, its unmoderate, frecuently even violent, programmes. On the other hand, our younger generations are considered lacking in their education and cultural approachment. Under these circumstances, the periods of time that children wasted "sticked to the box", other generations may have devoted them to traditional games, going for a walk or even studying any subject.	
	Another aspect of this poor influence has been the use of the audience opinions to the own benefit of the TV channels. These ones seem to play with people as if they were nearly "robots", controlling their will to get what they need from them. For example, to watch a certain programme because it shown the "true" life of such a one actress, or to vote a political party which appears in a certain channel, depending on if we are refering to TV or politicians. Under these circumstances, TV channels may become an instrument for political parties to get a more direct contact with the population and in this way to obtain their support for their personal goals, specially diring general elections campaigns. So this, depending on the cultural level of the viewer, his opinion will be, concious or unconciously, more or less influenced. Both, TV channels and political leaders, make use of their power of influence in society and guide the country towards the situation which is more suitable for them. In a particular way, public opinion may be suffering a kind of "dictatorship" from actual journalism.
	As a necessary consequence from this wide approachment of television to people, social behavious and manners have evolved towards more universal characteristics which, far from meaing an improvement of its quality, it is nearer an assimilation of North-American way of life in the rest of countries. The increase of expressions and activities in fashion and foreign words and phrases transforms the languages in mere collections of easier systems of communication which do require no effort on looking for a more correct term to use An example of this case may be the use in non-English-speaking countries of the original names of some singular sperts such as "rafting" or "skating" which do not give a clear idea of what they actually consist on. As a result of this preference for everything "Made in the USA", not only expressions in vogue but as well films, foods, music styles or clothing fashions, arouse a feeling of quality inn these different cultures which, in most cases, tends to mean in fact economical or social success for whom brought them and besides the birht of a progressive assimilation of those features inside their own standars of living.
	As far as social events are concerned, the fast spread of television can transform it in a double-edged wheapon. In this respect, it is true that it can get in time to prevent a single person or a whole from any unpleasant event, but it may also rashly influence in a situation without respecting the will of the people who are living that circumstance, and distort its ending. It is demostrated that channels not only turn the audience numbers into benefits numbers for themselves but also do not worry about the way to get their aim, though in the way they may break in pieces the sensibility of people. So that, the way mentioned before could be a good mean for some journalists to advance in their careers. One good model of this tendency may be the popular "reality shows", which prefer the morbid, despite high, audience levels to the real feelings of the protagonists.
	This double dimension of television in our lives, positive at the same time that negative, has reached to be so deep that, as any other drug, trying to suppress it would not even be welcomed by the very society.
