<ICLE-SP-UCM-0028.3>

This essay deals with the idea of explaining the sentence written by Orwell in his book Animal Farm. It says: "All men are equal: but some are more equal than others". Using this statement the author influenced by the situation of his time (inter-war period) wanted to satirize the political sitiation and society of eastern countries and with this quotation he resumes the principal ideas of his nove. How true is today is going to be presented through the text.
The main Orwell`s purpose was to show a relity, the fact is that in written documents (as in Declaration of the Human Rights 1789 and in other recent one) It is considered that there is no difference between nen, but this first part of the sentence is quite distant from the reality. In the second part of the statement, the author using a comparision, completes and denies the first clause. This second part can be clarified if we expose some reasons of conflicts in our societies.
Today one of the main differences between men is their economical position. The economical position reinforces the power of the ruling classes and stresses the poverty of the lower classes. People are the same but money gives the posibility of doing many things and reinforces the inequalities of the social classes but not only between social classes but countries too.
Depending on the economical power a country can be included into a group or exluded. Only a few nations (Western European counties, United States and Japan) can be considered rich ones and can have a great influence over the rest of nations that in the worst case can be presented as a Third World country and in the best case can be declared a developing nation.
Other difference is the race, placed in a first position. Racirm is considered an important conficlt in our societies. The main surces of racism are the colonization and the emigation. Colonization deals with the economical position, a rich country exploits other one with a less developed economy. In the case of emigration, people do not stand their situation in a poor country (generally it has become poor by the influence of the colonizer) So they pove to another places. This situation creates a conflict between the emigrant and the native people of the receptive country called racism.
In a second place sex is not supposed to be a cause of discrimination today but the reality is that sexism constitutes an important reason of conflicts in our societies. Women have a traditional role in our cultures imposed by men who want to conserve their priviledges above women so it is very difficult to get cut of this traditional role but there are groups as Women`s Lib that tries to liberate women from domestic duties and from a subordinate role in society and bussines and tries to obtain a position of legal and social equality with men.
In a third position religion represents another reason of distinction, Some communities have suffered fro a long time an unfair treatement. Prejudices and misconceptions about some religious and its habits have been the main source of troubles thorough the history, an example of this can be shown if we talk about Jews.
Of people notice that all these facts are real problems in societies of the whole planet, Orwell`s statement can be considered as an important proof of the real situation between men.
