<ICLE-SP-UCM-0013.3>

	 	One of the topics that people, especially young people, argue in daily conversations, is the idea of doing the Compulsory Military Service. The most of the people avoid it as if it was a terrible disease and try in, all the ways, not to do it.
	However, people are concerned that someone has to protect us in case of an armed fight, but they think it would be better for all, the creation or a profesional army. In that way there would be a group of cualified persons capable to do all kind of jobs related with the protection of the citizens as soon as the realization of other kind of work.
	The complicacies that Military Service establish to youth are connected, in a large number of cases, with the incompatibility of study and do the Military Service. In the most of the cases, it can be avoid with the solicitation of an extension of several years to do what the young man is doing in that moment so as not to interrupt the educational process of the person.
	But that do not always happens and some persons have to do it and they can do anything in the matter without it makes big problems to them. There are two kind of people that refuse to do Military Service: the two groups have in common the idea of not war and no arms or simply that they do not want to use arms against other people, but there are some differences between them and while ones, instead of doing Military Service, perform some others communitary activities as help in hospitals or aid faulty children, the second ones fight the system as they can but that way of act can generate all kind of problems for them, even the imprisonment.
	Besides the social conflicts that the Compulsory Military Service produce, there are some other topics that make it more problematic. The cuantity of money invest in equipment, armament, supplies and in appointments is bigger than the money which would be spent in a profesional army. Some countries as Denmark or Switzwerland, have abolish the Compulsory Military Service and creating a profesional army saving millions of dollars in that way.
	Finally, the idea of a system bases in the Military Service seems to be made with the only purpose of annoy young people when the creation of a profesional army looks like the best way to defend our country and they way of create more employment at the same time that please all us.
