<ICLE-SP-UCM-0001.3>

	Few years ago, the study of a career was destinated to the offsprings from wealthy families but nowadays, the pyramid has been turned upside down and the theory, the most important feature of the careers, overshadows technical jobs. During the Spanish dictatorial epoque, the study of a career was a luxury which a few families could afford. Sending a son to university was too much expensive for a low-class family to pay, and it was usual for these youths to learn technical jobs such as plumbering, mechanic and so on. In the present age, due to the grants which the estate concedes to the students that have not enough economical mediums, going to university is whithin everybody's reach.
	A large number of parents have longed for giving their children what they could not have; a universitarian degree. This fact has made the former order to be altered; the amount of universitarian students has risen in an extraordinary manner and technical jobs have been relegated to a lower level. Such a quick increase in the students number has two main consequences. First of all, universities are overcrowded and therefore, the education is very low and secondly, there is not enough money to promote university. For this reason, the easiest way has been chosen; to teach theorical classes and not to offer practices which would be too expensive.
	The lack of practices in universities present two great problems. On the one hand student's lack of preparation and, on the other hand the lack of jobs because of this bad preparation. It must not be a strange, then, to find students that are lost when they are unable to put into practice what they have learnt five years of hard study and when, at the same time, technical students; for instance F.P. ones, are preferred instead of a "parroting universitarian one".
	Actually, it is nearly impossible to find a job without having achieved some kind of experience before but, how to get it without practices?.
	The unique careers which could be out of this dynamic, are the scientific ones. Careers such as Physics, Medicine, Computers, etc. These careers offer to the students the oportunity of practicing them in laboratories but, what about Art careers?. In careers such as Law there is not any sort of practice while it would be very useful for them to perform courts in class. Apart from this example, no need to say that careers such as modern Phylologies, lack both of good language laboratories and libraries. Moreover, the grants bestowed to the students so that they can study abroad, are very difficult to achieve and only a few lucky students can get them.
	It is urgent to change the system. Please, help us and give much more money to promote university and to get better education which implies both practical and theoretical classes.
