<ICLE-SP-UCM-0036.3>

	After obtaining our university degree, we often find ourselves completely lost at our first job. This initial disorientation is caused by several factors, both external and internal, that is to say, concerning the person itself and his or her interest in getting a constant improvement.
	First of all, let us consider the external factors which affects our university education.
	Since the University is a system which was created in order to prepare students for a right integration in the professional world, one of its mor important objectives should be to offer a education which were complemented with an adequate professional training.
	According to that proverb which says `Practice makes perfect` (in fact, the reality shows it), the inclusion of a wider period of professional training in all the univerity careers would be something necessary nowadays.
	It is obvious that the biggest difficulty to get this objective is the overcrowding of our universities and, of course, the lack of economic resources. But we are considering here the reasons and the consequences. In my opinion, finding the right solution would be out of the students reach. Anyway, as an example we would say that two lawyers are better than twenty of them which would not know what to do outside the university.
	There are other problems which can also affect this situation to a large extent. For instance, the time we lose all through the day because of transport or timetables, the professors subjectivity when it comes to impart their subjects - here wer are referring to the fact that several professors impart the same subject in a very different way, it affects the general education scheme created for each career-, the wrong evaluation of the students -this does not require more explanation-, and so forth.
	But it is not just either attributing the blame of the degrees scarce value, only to the university system. Everybody who "enjoy it" should also bring their collaboration so that the degree we obtain at the end of our career were not only of theoretical value. Our best contribution would be our personal effort. Making good use of our free time, investigating every subject individually, non spending so much time chatting with our partners..., to sum up, doing everything which could contribute to get our university degree be really worthy of its name, is something we should not pass by.
	The worst consequence of this lack in the university education is that all the small and big companies have already realised it. Nowadays, nobody wants iexpert lawyers. They are looking for people with professional experience, and it is getting more and more difficult for young people which have just finished their careers to get a opportunity in the professional world.
	This situation will affect our society in two ways: first, the quality of the workers will be worse and, as a result of this, our economy will take a dive; second, it will be more and more impossible for young people to get a job.
	Anyway, the problem we have considered clearly does not admit of an easy solution, but it is hoped that the education authority take steps to ameliorate its worst effects in a future.
