<ICLE-SP-UCM-0002.1>

"Feminism has to evolve or die", Friedan said in 1982 and the reality is that it has evolved. In the sixties, women developed a spirit of unity and the first murmurings of unhappiness arose out of the desperation of mothers who felt isolated in their homes and people saw the first feminist march. In the seventies feminism was a movement with a lot of support societies but in the eighties people began to speak about the negative consequences of feminism. Now, in the nineties we speak about the power of feminism.
In my opinion we have to forget the feminism of the seventies because this term identifies us with inequality, oppression and victimization. And instead we must focus our energies on the realization of our personal and political power.
However, we must take into account that we have some qualities counting against us such as maternity which is an obstacle if we want to can see the appearance of the new women "who are called new feminists", and they tell us that women are not men and they don't have to be like them. Fundamentally, maternity is the main obstacle in this topic; at least until we have adequate social planning which allows us childminding facilities compatible with our jobs.
nowadays, women don t like the word feminist. The number of women who identify with this term has dropped whereas the support for womans' rights has increased to the same extent. Women support the ideas of the feminine movement but they don't want to use the term "feminist".
There is no doubt that feminism has progressed since the seventies, but each generation has had to create its own truth. Up until now feminism has really been a political success (we have got and we shall get into power), but it has been a complete disaster as far as public relations is concerned. On the one hand because it has been cruelly ridiculed and caricatured in the media, on the other because it has been defined within very narrow margins which have been drawn by some feminists. If this movement wants to evolve it has to break away from the myth that feminism is the only manner or form of life, there is. A woman doesn't have to fight in order to work inside and outside the home.
A woman who works outside the home is not more of a feminist. Feminism is a tool which allows u~ to choose the life that we want such as working inside or outside the home. This movement needs to be integrated.
Nowadays most women accept the idea of traditional feminine qualities, such as maternity, child rearing and although other women say that this fact is treachery.
In the seventies and eighties women started to be tired of a job outside the home and a family besides. A lot of them came back from their jobs to their homes with the idea that they had to be perfect in the work field and in the home. Feminism seemed very demanding and they moved away from it.
I don't think that feminists have done harm to the cause of women. In my opinion feminism started with good ideals but these were badly focused. This is perfectly normal in all movements or parties which start from scratch. With time they reach degree of perfection in accordance with their maturity.
In the nineties we understand that we have to defend our rights. The aversion which we felt towards feminism has been overcome. This term became a missile which was invented by eighties "machism".
I think that nowadays the man has a new attitude. He accepts that things have changed and feminism tries to integrate men into this new society.
