<ICLE-SP-UCM-0019.1>

a) The evolution of English drama 	The first thing that should be taken into consideration when speaking about performances in the Middle Ages if we want to achieve an in-depth view is, no doubt, the strong influence that the Church had on Society, and therefore the Church plays a key role when it comes to the conditions of performing the plays as well as the subjects used at that time.
	At the beginning of this period the influence was so strong that everything related to the performance as such was done by monks and priests.  Therefore the plays performed in this period were nothing but mere representations of scenes taken from the Bible and the actors were again within this religious atmosphere: priests and monks.
	A highly relevant feature is the place used for the performance.  Obviously, performing the play inside the temple or close to it would be the most natural way to carry out this kind of theatre, due to its religious nature, otherwise is would be considered a sacrilege if the performances were made outside the Church.  Furthermore, it seems necessary to point out that it was the easiest way for all the religious ideas to be within reach for all the population.  Another feature which is worth mentioning is that the performances should be written in a rather plain language, avoiding all kind of Latin rhetorical formulae, since they were orientated to a rather uncultured people who needed to be "instructed" and, therefore that is the most accessible way to get the message across.
	Later on, the influence of the Church faded away and we get a completely different method in performing drama.  This period is characterised by the "secularization" in several fields: both in the actors and in the place of performance.  As far as subjects are concerned, it still deals with religious scenes from the time of the Creation until the final Judgement.  This type of theatre is what is known as the Mistery and Miracle plays which was performed in booths in the street.  This particular way of performing was highly enjoyable for the medieval population, because they went touring from town to town so that they could be seen by almost anyone.  Obviously, this type of drama was assigned for the lower sectors of society and it was no longer performed by members of the Church, but by guilds.
	As it was pointed out earlier on, they went touring.  There are several cycles: on of them related to a particular town: York, Wakefield, Chester, Coventry; each with its own characteristical features.
b) Ben Jonson's characters have limitations, but we should point out the nature of these limitations.
	First of all, as far as the depiction of the characters is concerned, in my opinion, Ben Jonson does not treat all his characters with the same criteria and he is quite 'unfair' when it comes to depicting his characters and providing them with acting possibilities, since he puts limits to the acting space of some so that others can show the greatness of their possibilities as characters of the play.  This unbalanced approach to his characters comes across in "Volpone" if we think of the characters of Celia and Bonario, who no doubt should be taken up to the category of protagonists.  Nevertheless they appear as two rather weak and badly depicted characters, if seems as if Jonson had put some kind of barriers on them so they could not develop properly.  The main reason for this deliberate limitation of characters is that Volpone is too great a character and therefore Jonson cannot be bothered to depict 'delightful' characters.  He is not interested in human goodness, he wants his characters to be cynical and greedy, which is much more exciting, so he provides Volpone and Mosca with endless possibilities.
		The characters have also another kind of limitations and they are limited in a way that sometimes they cannot be taken out of their historical period, that is to say>: Ben Jonson show us an in-depth description of the lowest sectors of society of his time and the way they survive, he show us the real picture of this underworld full of rogues in a very specific town.  Obviously, this leads to a very confined and limited world of rogues and thieves where human goodness has no place and the characters have nothing to do but try to get things out of each other.  That is the reason why his characters have limitations, for example, if we try to take Volpone, Mosca or Corvino out of this play and place them in another kind of comedy, say, "Twelfth Night", this characters just wouldn't know how to react and they would be completely out of place, due to their limitations as wicked and greedy characters and the limitations put on the atmosphere in which they move.  I will take time to mention Celia and Bonario once more.  They are, in my opinion, more universal characters, you can easily take them out of this comedy and perhaps that is the reason for their bad depiction.
	As a conclusion, one can taste the real flavour of London's lowlife in Ben jonson's time, but we also need to take into consideration that these characters are  limited within this underground atmosphere and are unable to develop other features.
4) In order to make Edward II as a sympathetic character, What Marlowe does at the beginning of the play is to present someone of a very high social status provided with everything he needs, and as the play moves on he takes everything away from him, makes him suffer, he is humiliated until he reduces to the mere state of human being.  Therefore, by presenting the main character in such a way throughout the play, by this close found by this reversal of fortune, he makes us feels sympathy towards the character, I would say also "empathy" and cry with him.
	Another relevant feature about Edward II is that he is put to test in many extreme tragical situations where he is humiliated and tortured.  In those scenes, our sympathy for Edward is based in mere humanitarian grounds.  It seems natural that the character by behaving in such a childish and instinctive way arises those maternal feelings that are so common in us.
	Nevertheless, at the same time, I think we have a biased opinion of Edward's figure, since it seems that with all his crying he has been playing an emotional blackmail on us, especially if we consider that all the play is seen through Edward and Gaveston's eyes, therefore we are lead to see no further than Edward's suffering and to have had feelings towards those who are put against him.
