<ICLE-SP-UCM-0006.1>

How many times have we heard the sage:"I have my rights, since I pay my taxes?". Probably, thousands of times. Nevertheless, hardly ever is this utopian idea fulfil, above all for those persons who share the status of being common citizens. In fact, the civil rights are achieved in a country, by means of an external condition, which is based on the economical power of the individuals. If you are one of those who have a healthy current account, then, you could regard yourself as being extremely lucky. Immediately, all doors which were shuted up for other people, will open just for you. And, in this case, there is no point in complaining continually if you are not one of the elected, for the medium citizen is accustomed to these social inequalities. We must resign ourselves not to having their rights, musing about the fact that, if we were them, we would do the same.
All these factors contribute to the enhancement of the discrimination and racism between the poor and those who have more financial resources. For instance, it is not very far from us, the state of affairs related to Mario Conde, the former president of Banesto. This man was supposed to be an upright personality, however, he has turned out to be a fiasco. Not onlv did he made investments in companies which he does not registered, but he also used the shareholders'money in his own benefit.
I am afraid that this practice is becoming very common among some individuals who own a" stainless behaviour". But, which is the reward that these kind of people should achieve when they pilfer from our pocket? At first sight, it seems extremely comforting to think about the fact that there are people who lack of the primary resources for their living and that, in the meanwhile, there are other persons who have swindled us out of money and are supported by higher institutions. Then, what should we expect from those apparatuses which, theoretically, are caring for our interests? If it be so, then I should rather prefer emigrating to any other country.
In the present days, it is in fashion to discuss about the exemplary behaviours of Mariano Rubio and Manuel de La Concha. Both of them are in tight conexion with the Ibercop case. Once again, the public opinion can observe how the Law deals with these frauds, protecting and covering them up. It is quite amazing to notice the instruments that the society spreads out in order to protect itself against the nigh perils, especially from those which come from other continents. Really, we all consider that these emigrants are trying to take our properties away, like our money or even though our job. So, we do not want them to live here with us, since they represent a clear menace to our security. However, we all do know that this situation will keep on, until the people who are requiring their cheaper labour, accept to rise their salaries, too. If this fact does not happen, then the holdsups will increase and nothing will be able to prevent them from occuring. Nevertheless, we see one more time, how the powerful individuals can murder without any fear of being punished. We must remember cases such as Carlos Sainz'father to be able to appreciate the unbalance existent among the  individuals. If a diplomatic can murder a negro with his gun because he wanted to steal a woman's handbag, then, there is nothing left to do. As if we were living in Chicago, people in Spain should be taught the irrational skill of murdering.
