<ICLE-SP-UCM-0015.1>

	I completely agree with this statement; human society, taken as a general mass, needs of 'something' special which provides the masses with some needs and goals so as to be satisfied and controlled. In ancient times, the oligarchy knew how to control the masses through religion. The promise of a better world, of a promised PARADISE where all people would be happy forever ONLY if they followed accurately the rules of the religious authorities. So, ancient masses obeyed blindly so as to obtain the reward: a reverending happiness.
	Thus, masses were led to holy wars, to build up cathedrals, to pay taxes and work for the clergy and the aristocracy with complacency as well as they were not allowed to think or to better their living conditions. That is the way it had to be done in an ancient class society.
	Nowadays, in our class society, the oligarchy and the religion have given way to the new rulers of masses: The Politicians.
	This social group was born in recent times, Karl Marx was one of the most important phylosophers and politicians of the present. His influence has changed the sign of times of this century. His ideas led a whole nation to change abruptly the political and economical system : The Russian Revolution.
	He was a communist, so he tried to change the system of ruling classes in order to transmit the power to rule to the whole society, to the masses. He tried to develop an economical system to support this idea in a book called 'Das Kapital'. He tried to overthrow religion. He knew that religion was the system used to 'sleep' the masses, so as to be better controlled by the oligarchy. He tried to 'wake up' the masses from that 'ignorant dream'.
	But he did not consider that the human masses, of any time and nationality, have a real need of avoiding reality, a need for a quest of the complete happiness when they have it not. It does not matter if that happiness is fictitious or not true, all that matters is that the sense of happiness must mean a relief to the pain and insatisfaction of everyday life of masses. It must be immediate and cheap, the effects the same as a drug... Masses needs of that 'opium' that Marx identified once with religion to be kept in calm, to be kept under control, not being led into chaos and to keep the class society systems up.
	As religion went away from the preferences of modern industrialized society; radio, cinema and after them, television changed the way the needs of the masses were satisfied. A new happiness came from these electrical receivers, new a and more immediate, cheaper. The magic is in that  turning on or pressing one button. The masses fly from reality to dreams of passion, happiness, richness and pleasure; and instantly they could choose between different dreams.
	Even more that radio and cinema, the Television has invaded almost all particular homes all over the world. TV sets are spread everywhere and anybody may feel captured in any time when the this 'predator of minds' is on. The new oligarchy: High economists, Politicians and billionaires know that through this MASS-MEDIA (highly descriptive name) the masses obtain the main vision of the world reality so, it can be manipulated. This public eye has only a single point of view and it is idealized as the real one by sayings like: 'A single image is worth than a thousand words', 'Images don't lie' ...
	And ,thus masses are led to believe only in what they see through TV: We think "That horrible thing only happened far, far away in another country and here, we are safe and reliants, confidents in our leaders, good fellows who always smile and promise everything we need and dream of.
	Meanwhile, the world is how the CNN describes it and the 'real' happiness of this world is sold by means of YOUTH, BEAUTY, SEX, SUCCESS and RICHNESS though the apparently innocent screen of the television set, the 'silly box,' which made us silly too. This new Pandora's box of modern times. To sum up, the TRUE 'opium' of the masses of modern society.
