<ICLE-SP-UCM-0044.3>

	Marx once considered religion to be the opium of the masses, if he was alive at the end of the 20th century, he would substitute religion for television. He thought that religion was like a drug for many people, because it had a great influence on the way they acted and because it was a way of evasion. Nowadays televisio has a large influence on the viewer`s behaviour and it is a way of escapism as well.
	On the one hand, "the box" affects different people`s conduct in several ways; they may change not only some aspects of their behavious but also their personality deeply. Chidren, for instance, can be dangerously damaged watching hard violence and sex on television. The first time they watch these kind of scenes they are impressed by them, but shortly after they think that violence and sex are usual features of life and they imitate these conducts. They behave violently with their classmates at the school or with their brothers and sisters at home, and they have a confused and mistaken idea of sexuality.
	Television not only pulls the wool over children`s eyes but rather over adults; their lifestyle and their ideas are threatened by some advertisements, films and programs. People who are not very cultivated, who are not intelligent enough or even some refines and clever people withouut a strong personality, are usually cheated by television. They believe that every single thing shown on the screen is the best; therefore many viewers try to achieve all the products which appear on the advertisements, although some cannot afford them. Others, after watching several violents films, think that violence is the only way to survive in this competitive and terrible world and they apply this to their lives. In a parallel way they keep the mistaken conception of "woman being a sexual object" that is reflected in vaious movies which show hard sexual scenes (rape for example).
	On the other hand, television is a way of evasion of problems for certain people. Some onlookers try to escape from the daily worries and anxieties watching other people`s misfortunes; they plunge themselves into television serials and reality shows forgetting thir own preocupations and enjoying others` ones. As a drug, it has limited effects and when these sort of programs finish, they return to their own reality; sometimes these prople try to apply the tragic solutions they have observed on the serials or on the shows to their problematical situations which, very often, worsen them.
	Once a person is involved in this misleading world of television, he/she will have great difficulties to get out of it. This is another characteristic that television share with a drug, a sort of dependency, because when a peroson become addicted to drugs he/she has a wide number of problems until he/she gets rid of them. If a viewer wastes a long time everyday watching television it will be very difficult for him/her to finish with this habit escaping from the influence "the box" will have on himself/herself, and to select the few adecuate number of programs which are worth seeing.
	In conclusion it can be said that as television is one of the most powerful means to dominate people`s mind and acts, viewers should avoid watching it so often and they should study which programs or films are useful and unharmful for them, in order to protect their whole personality and their family, taking into account that consequencies derived from the influence of television are in some way similar to the ones that derive from the dependency of drugs.
