<ICLE-SP-UCM-0026.3>

	There is a place for dreaming and imagination in all the domains of life.
	Dreams and imagination are necessary for arts and science so if they would not exist we had not developed neither science nor technology. On my opinion they both are the base of progress because if Leonardo da Vinci, Marie Curie, Thomas Edison, among others, had not dreamt of their inventions they would not succeeded in developing them.
	Moreover they had to use their imagination in order to develop them, consequently they both are linking and in this case they are very necessary.
	Also not only they are necessary for the development of science and technology, but also they are the roots of arts, even there is a movement in literature called "Surrealisme" which takes the author's dreams in order to create a freer poetry. A new kind of poetry can be considered the lirics of the musician Prince, in the lirics of his songs he talks about love but in a different sense, applying other concepts. They are more imaginative compared to other musicians and lirics writers, besides he composes his songs faster than others without repeating rythms or melodies and so on, so in conclusion he uses a big deal of imagination and without it nothing would be the same in his music.
	There are a lot of people who say that does not understand Prince music or some kinds of sculptures and paintings, perhaps if they would open their minds and let their imagination fly they could understand not only new alternatives of art but also a lot of things about life.  In this sense, from my point of view, imagination is related to intelligence because most of the cleverest people have no prejudice about learning and accepting new ideas.
	Imagination can make us wiser so we must use it in our every day life, from preparing the supper to deceive our wife, "devilish" mother-in-law, husband or boyfriend (in the case of boyfriend or husband is quite easily so a short deal of imagination is needed).
	Sometimes our everyday life disappoint us so we dream of how it should be. Dreams are important, we could not live without dreaming because human being is always trying to be better than it is or having more than it has. Human beings want to be perfect, this is why in our dreams everything is perfect. We have an ideal of how ourselves must be, something which we want reach be we never do it and probably this is the reason why we are never completely happy. We feel unhappy because we do not have enough. When you are short want to be tall but once you are tall you would like to be slimer, by the time you are slim you are thinking about tinting your hair and at the same time thinking about if you should get married, for finally spend your life trying to get rid of your husband.
	In one sense dreams and imagination help one another because for obtaining our dreams we need imagination. They both are the base of ambition and this is the fact that makes us improving our world beyond the industrialization and technology which we have.
