<ICLE-SP-UCM-0014.2>

No doubt 1995 is going to be a crucial year in the development of the economical and political European project, presently called the European Union. What it started in the beginning as a rather small organization for economical cooperation among some central European countries turned out into an ambitious plan not only to promote the economic relations within the members, but also with the ultimate aim to achieve in the long run a united Europe with common policies, common taxes, no internal borders whatsoever and even with the implantation of the same currency: the ECU.
The reason why 1995 will be a remarkable year for the European history lies in the enlargement of the European Union with the adhesion of Sweden, Finland and Austria. Although the joining of countries with such strong economies looks certainly appealing, the fact is that it will also bring about some complications to the normal functioning of the European Union.
To begin with in a larger organization small countries like Ireland, Luxembourg or Belgium will have less influence when voting, and consequently when deciding the policies that will directly affect their own countries. Despite these countries having been awarded with more number of votes in relation to their size and population, it should not be forgotten that there are more countries knocking at the European Union door such as Turkey, Poland, the Czech Republic and most of the other Eastern European countries. For the time being their weak economic systems and unstable goverments prevent them from joining the European Union, although many experts would agree this is a temporary situation.
Besides, an eventual significant enlargement of the European Union will also bring more burocracy, more new languages into which all the documents will have to be translated, new jobs created just to be filled by the new member representatives, slower negotiations, all in all an enlargement could mean a loss of efficiency.
Despite the apparent advantages of being a member of such a weighty common market, not all countries are able to pay the high admission fee of giving up part of the sovereignity. Norwegians have recently rejected entrance in this exclusive European club fearing at the back of their minds a loss of control in foreign affairs and what is more important a loss of their national identity.
Presumibly the European Union will never be a gigantic federate state in the way the United States is organised, as Europeans countries have far more culture differences among themselves. On the other hand there have been attempts to talk about a European cultural identity, though a common European identity will be extremely difficult to define. This is why the idea of Europe as an independent nation has been questioned in many occasions. Is it possible the existence of a nation without an identity that backs it up? The answer is that Europe does not have a single identity but dozens of them that are different and overlap at the same time.
A united Europe is overall a project, whose success depends on the efforts of governments and citizens. Tbe creation of a supranational organization has had in return a loss of competences in every country member. Nevertheless this is where it lies its strength, in a supranational European Parliament which coordinates all kinds of policies and where all country's voices can be heard, a European Union which will help to build a common field of democracy and peace.
