<ICLE-SP-UCM-0008.3>

	The twentieth century is the century of science, technology and industrialization. In this century a great number of very relevant discoveries have taken place. Most of them have changed our way of living and have influenced our way of looking at the world.
	One of the most decisive inventions has been television which has made our life completely different from its appearance. Although this change began with the invention of the radio, the one that substituted the enjoyment of the company of friends and family has been television.
	This fact together with the development of cinema have destroyed nearly the act of imagining and reading. Reading used to be an usual activity of entertainment but has been mostly replaced by watching television or seeing a film. Nowadays everybody should find reading interesting and enjoyable, however, the reality is totally different. As an example of this we can see how most of the students of secondary school in Spain do not like to read, and if they do it, it is only because they have been obligued at school. It is very well known that when a book is read the imagination has to work actively and the mind of the person who is reading the book can origine a wide range of sensations. On the contrary, when someone is seeing a film or watching a television program everything is already done and the feelings that emerge from the brain of the spectator are those that the filmaker wants to make appear in his mind.
	Moreover the birth of computers has meant a revolution in every field of modern life. Everything is easier, and so easy that children do not need to imagine new worlds or different games because the electronic games do almost everything. Some years ago a child could imagine that he was a great king with lot of power and a big castle just with a couple of wooden pieces, or a little girl could imagine that she was a beautiful princess with only a cloth over her head. Today all these things have practically chaged, most of the children are used to play with their electronic games and their toys are so complicated and perfect that they do not need fantasy at all.
	As I have said before this is the century of science. But some sciences have been developed not only during this century but some centuries ago. Such sciences as Medicine, Biology, Chemistry, Astronomy and the discoveries made by them have thrown away a great number of theories that had had the purpose of giving an explanation to some phenomena that apparently had not a logical reason. These theories were studied, and are still studied but with less success by some pseudosciences like Palmistry, Astrology, Occultism, Parapsychology, Spiritualism, Hypnosis, etc., but most of the times these theories were exposed and created by the popular tradition and superstition in which the imagination played a very important role.
	To finish with this topic I would like to make a vindication of the importance of literature against the great influence that modern sciences and empirical sciences have in the actual world. Literature always gives an opportunity to the development of imagination and selfcreation, while technology, science and industrialisation condemn the world of imagination and fantasy nearly to the desaparition.
