<ICLE-SP-UCM-0014.3>

	All evils have their roots in money as we all know. The rich people and the poor one always been all around the world.  Both kinds of people have been submitted to money for many reasons. These reasons can be divided in two pieces:- one: causes which concern the poors and, the ones that have to do with rich people would be the second one.
	As regards the latter, most of the rich people belong jewels, cars, mansions,... However, these properties don't seem to be enough for them.  They usually become more and more selfish. This selfishness attracts many evils. One of them is corruption. Nowadays, it is seem as the spot of the light of Spanish politics. Though it doesn't mean that it has not been present before, because it has always been hidden.  Corruption in all its aspects (politic, economic,...) goes very close to bribes. They appear in all the subjects you can imagine. If we think about the media there are lot of bribes, above all, in T.V. Also many of them stikes the world of the sport: referees in matches of football for example, or other games. But even in the most serious fields, one of them Law, is where they occur more frequently. Moreover, we now and then are found with dealings with drugs involving corruption and bribes.  That originates frequently misunderstandings because lower social classes are, or were thought to be de traders, whereas all the money and therefore drugs comes from highest soccial ones. Swindle is another example of ordinary evil in these days regarding money, obviously.  Selfishness is, as I've said in previous lines, the greatest evil of our society.  As regards developed and rich countries, their selfishness and high proud bring the poverty to other ones and consequently we find the third world.
	On the other hand, when poverty reigns in your life, the normal that can happen is that you beg, as many people do in the streets, in the underground and places like that.  But this seems to become harder when you hear about murders among beggars, or robberies in stores, banks..., pick-pockets and so on. Prostitution is another solution that poors accept as a way of surviving, above all women, and this fact is very sad but the worst of the levels is that of commiting suicide. With this idea we reach to the conclusion that a chaos is continually dominating our world though there are times it is hidden.
	What is clear is that without money you are nothing, currently.  All our world live with the obssession of that idea and it is proved in many cases it is not what produces happiness.  Nevertheless, unfortunately it is a cruel reality that if you don't have money in this society you are treated like a puppet. Once again money is a point of conflict that has reigned in the mankind all around the years and, as the topic of this essay says, it is the root of all evils that occur in our society.
