<ICLE-SP-UCM-0035.3>

	Recent researches have shown that the different aims at reforming people in the prison institutions developed between the eighteen century and the twentieth century in NorthAmerica and Europe, are obsolee.
	Before the eighteen century, criminal acts were punished with physical violence including torture and mutilation or the death penalty. However since the eighteenth century some countires have seen the need to reform this system in order to carry out a juster punishment and a more human and more worthy system of execution. Besides, the proposed systems mentioned, were related to the question of the prisioner`s isolation.
	The two more important systems were the Pennsylvanian system and the Auburn system. The first one, the Pennsylvanian circular system, was created in order to substitute the physical violence and death penalty for the loss of liberty, because its creator was a Quaker whose religion did not allow him to punish criminals with these types of punishment: physical violence and death penalty. This system obliged its prisioners to endure total isolation day and night in their cells during their imprisionment and forbade any type of visit, except from the prison master and the priest.
	The other system, Auburn system, also obliged the prisioners to remain in their cells, but only at night in order to avoid promiscuity and corruption. Prisionersw worked with the others during the day, but in complete silence and they could not have any type of visit from their relatives.
	However these two systems were soon outdated because of their consequences, though some of them are considered advantages such as avoiding the corruption and infection among the inmates, to maintain cleanliness, order and discipline. Others, on the contray, were bad for the prisioner`s health. Due to the loneliness, complete silence and physical punishment, the danger of losing psychical and physical health, hate and social maladjustment arose.
	As a result of these two systems, the progressive system, which is still used, appeared. This system consisted in dividing the period in which the prisioner served his sentence in four periods of time. The prisioner started in the first period in which he did not have any priviledge. As prisioner`s behaviour improved, he was transferred from a period to another period getting priviledges, until he got the pre-liberty period, conditional liberty, when he could be released on bail. Will these four periods what was tried was to resocialize the prisioner little by little in order to adapt him to the socializing rules.
	In spite of these aims at reforming prison systems over the history, none of them got its purpose of reducing deliquency and rehabilite criminals. Therefore "sursis" and "provation" were created as an alternative to the encarcelation. These two alternatives, which were developed in different countires, but mainly in England, France and Holland, prostulate respectively the suspension of execution of the punishment, according to which, the criminal is tried and condemned, but he is at liberty. If during a period of time he does not make any infraction, the punishment was considered not imposed, and the fact that after dondemning the criminal, the sentence is interrupted on dondition that the criminal accepted the "provation" official`s vigilance. But not even in this way, neither criminal acts have been reduced nor re-education or re-socialization of criminals in order to adopt to social rules has been achieved.
	So that, at present, what different societies try to do is to prevent potential criminals from commiting criminal acts, that is to say, they try to act before people commit an offence, and not after they have commited it.
