<ICLE-SP-UCM-0012.2>

	My opinion may sound rather pesimistic, but I do think that as we have reached the wonderful "era of the computers", at the same time we have made ourselves cooler and more dependent on the very machines we have created.
	As far as technology is concerned , the problem is deep-rooted because nowadays since the childhood we are given very few chances of creating or imaging. There has been recently a boom in the selling of a type of games which I find specially harmful. This boom has meant a great change of children's likes .In spite of the good opinions it is impossible for me to believe for instance that a video-game stimulates the imagination,when everything is given on a screen , and the only effort one have to do is to push a few buttons either on the rigth or on the left. I tried to find something useful about these games but it was a waste of time,maybe because I am that type of person who finds difficult even to look for a book with a menu-programme and a computer. Apart from this Ihardly believe these games can instruct children as many people have pointed out. I miss those old games, now forgotten with which you really made tour mind work by building or creting figures without any pattern. lexpect this will be a fashion caused by the novelty and that this will be over very soon. A second polemic example that I must criticize is that connected with television, Both children and adults spend most of their free time watching it. But television is not the problem. The error is in the excessive use we make of it. How many people would be able to get by without this apparatus ? There are even games which are sold with a video. It seems as if the purpose of all this technical development were to prevent us from creating providing the products of the imagination.
	In the last years as a result of this development, in our modern society the Humanities are bordering on extinction and very few studies remain where people can exercise their imagination.I don'nt want to return to the eighteenth century when people had to travel during weeks until arriving to the "New World ". I just want to warn of the possible and probable harm that every extreme situation can cause, and to avoid turning the man into a useless being similar to a machine. In the long run we may regret this great development . Although we need the science and the technology we cannot make of them the centre of our lives. We must pay heed to the rest of the activities which are outside this world. People are underestimating the world of the fantasy in the name of the industry. To sum up we are too much pragmatic.Maybe I am not a person of my time, but if this situation goes on through this way, I am sure this will not end in a happy end . I think I am lucky to be asisting just to the beginning.
