<ICLE-SP-UCM-0010.1>

I have chosen this essay because of the actual moment in which elections in several European countries must give birth to a new European Parliament with bigger powers thanks to the introduced changes in the Maastricht Treaty. However the moment of these elections is not very good. Nothing to do with the former ones in 1989, when comunism was sinking and "our good western world" would solve out the humaniy problems.
Today the European wave is in its lowest level. Pesimism is the predominant point in the public opinion. Europe has waken up, but what for if we have more of eleven million of unenmployed? I know it sounds very easy but is  a very extended idea.
Although abstention has been not so important as it was supposed to, euroescepticism is everywhere. The different electoral campaigns in the European Union (EU) countries have given a very clear idea: people will  vote due to national interests and themes. The European concept is devaluated. In the United Kingdom, what is all about, is giving "an uppercut" to Major. In Germany, an advance of the new legislative elections in October. In Spain, a punishment stroke to Gonzalez or a confidence vote to Aznar. In Italy, just to find out how far the new presented government (with several neofascist ministers in it, who cause a hair-raising reaction in the rest of Europe) has achieved the confidence of the Italian electors. In Holland, trying to influence in a long lasting government crisis. And France, well that is a special case: right voters can choose between two lists, one pro-european, another anti-Maastrich,  but Jacques Chirac, afraid of losing votes in 1995 when the presidential elections will be held, has given his support to both of them.
Is it still useful and logical having an European Parliament? I would say it is if the Parliament would reflect an European political life and political parties. It is true that the new Parliament will have stronger powers than before: it will ratify the new Comission, its president will have a co-decision power with the Ministers Council in many aspects (culture, education, environment, etc) but, will these competences enlargement provoke the awakening of interest of national political parties for the European political life? I doubt it. We will go on sending parliamentaries to Strasburg dedicated to those problems, but in an apart department like second hand ones.
I think we have lost the opportunity of developing a debate about the big problems that in the next decades, wiil affect us directly: shall we focus our efforts towards the unique coin (ECU), exterior policy and common defence forces (we have already seen how ridiculously Europe has acted in the old Yugoslavia: late and separated). We will have to decide which one is  the better way to welcome new eastern European countries, when, what procedures will be the best, etc. Going back is impossible and suicide and I hope politicians will not bury Europe by emptying it of political nerve, limiting it to burocratic decisions and keeping people out of important decisions. We all should learn about European mistakes in our old and recent history.
But let us focus the problem in Spain. After entering the European Union (old EEC) our economy growth rate was the highest in Europe. With this rhythm, Gonzalez would put Spain to the level of most prosperous European countries. Even the newspaper The Economist emphasized a year ago:"ltaly has not played a role in the EU comparable to its economic weight, while Spain has had more influence to date, that its size would give her".  Spain has passed from adoring the EU to the European disenchantment In the middle of the 80's the community was regarded as, both, a warranty of democracy and the modernization engine of the Spanish economy and society. But eight years belonging to the Brussels Club hve ruined the ingenousness of Spain, and though oficially denied, Spain is afraid on the next European amplifications (Austria -no comment about the pathe~c c~cus show pe~rmed by a radical right politician who is against belonging the EU-, Sweden, Norway and Finland), and in the future, poor eastern countries.
Most countries have the next idea: "to be strong in Brussels you have to be strong at home', and that means to concentrate more in the national policy than in the European one. A statistics published in the newspaper The European makes evident that "the European concept" is no longer a rooted idea in Spain: 21% of spaniards agree to leave the EU, percentage only surpassed by the United Kingdom and Denmark. Clarifying, isn't it?
For many europeans the idea of  a "strong European nation" is  a devaluated, if not abandoned, concept especially in the present crisis. But it is also true that the only way to face the two other world huge economic powers (USA and Japan) is being (and acting) a strong and un~ed Europe. If we will assist to the birth of an European nation, only time can say so.
