<ICLE-SP-UCM-0031.3>

	I have been asked to give my opinion about a subject that has never left of being zealous in all this time, since it was stated by Victor Hugo. If I say this, it is because the fact is still present; men not only are not doing anything to change their behaviour with Nature, if not that they continue injuring it.
	It is a fact that our enviroment gets worst and worst. The causes are much, but it is no reason to do nothing to change it.
	Since civilization started to develop itself, we all must recognize that it has been got some improvements that we all are grateful for. But we must look at the objections too.
	It is known, that uncontrolled spills from industries, are thrown to the rivers, seas and oceans. Indiscriminate hunting, is finising a lot of species in danger of extinction off. The uncontrolled felling of trees, is leaving desolate our forests.  More and more fires are provoked everyday, finishing the life of millions of animals, vegetables off... The obsession of carring a life of luxury is driving us, for example to buy one car for each one of our family, just for going to the University, at work, to buy the magazine that is sold in the corner of our street,... instead of using the public transport, going on bicycle or simply walking. Our confort carry us to throw used paper, glass, batteries... together with our trash, instead of of follow a method of recyclage which would avoid so much harm to everyone. Cruel furtive hunters, kill animals in one way that sometimes they can finish one specie off, just to get its skin, its horns..., all those, will serve to satisfie the pleasure of vanish people that feels more important carring a mink coat or having a ivory horn in their houses.
	All these facts: the erosion of the soil, atmospherical and rivers pollution, forestal fires, the construction of roads, ... are favouring the desolation of the earth.
	But not everything is against the enviroment. Some organizations like "Greenpeace", are contributing to help nature and to advice people of what they must do to get that their children have a place to live. Those organizations have promoted some campaigns of help like: the recyclage of used paper, bottle banks and can banks where we can throw our drink containers... Moreover, some of them have got that some industries spend more of their profits on ecotechnology and that they will be totally open and honest in the eco-labelling of their products. This means, for example, finding and using other gases to replace FCSs in industry, because of the harm that this gas make to the ozone layer.
	Those organizations protect too, those species in danger of extinction, which are menaced by hunters and other private interests. But these organizations are not such strong as for getting all that they should get.
	The worst thing, is that there are other subjects which seem to have more importance for the government that the situation of our ecosystem, like for example: armament.
	The reasons are clear, armament provides to Government more benefits (this means, economic benefits).
	Small attention is paid, and ridiculous subventions are given to mantein alive the earth. But great attention is paid and great deals of money are given to get the tools that some day will bring the death of our planet.
	Concluding, everyone could survive without a gun but not without the air, or the water, ....
