<ICLE-SP-UCM-0007.3>

	 	In the world, dominated by science, technology and industrialisation, there is no a place for dreaming and imagination. Thanks to science and its consecuences, technology and industrialisation, appeared the big factories and the capitalism system; the people began to work as much and fastly as possible, in a mechanical way, in order to get money to live. They began to live for working and to work for living. So the dreams and imagination only might appear in the spare time.
	Not only, in the modern life, there is not too much spare time for imagination and dreams but the technology have replaced it too. The technological progress is so important that is always present in the daily life in comparison with preceding ages.
	In preceding ages the people used their imagination in order to survive in a handy manner, exploring their creativity and exploring the limits of their minds. With very few advances it was possible to live in a pleasantly and quiet way, using the nature and the imagination, the creativity and ability of manking. Besides the families used to converse about their daily activities, or the grandparents to tell stories or tales to their grandchildren near the chimney developing the imagination and sharing their dreams.
	Nobody exercises his imagination in the present times. The technological progress makes all so easy and the human being is so tired because of the hard job, that nobody writes, paints, composes music unless as a profession and usually then they make use of computers to make it easier and faster job or follow a fashion to get money forgetting the imagination, the dreams, the art.
	The lack of imagination affects the children too. We trasmits them our way of enjoying and living. It is not strange for us the scene of a family dining watching TV and without speaking. They will not develop the imagination if only watch TV, play with the computer and not read or listen stories from their elders or play with other children. The technology produces not only a lack of imagination, dreams and creativity but isolation or lost of relationships, a lonely child watching TV instead playing with another child, as a consequence, human conflicts because of speaking while someone is watching TV or, moreover, the zapping.
	The virtual reality may suppose the useless of imagination for following generations. The great and continuous avances in this field of investigation may become true a way of living that only seemed possible in novels and films, in the imagination that the human being pleasantly used to exercise. Besides the evolution towards a more technological world may become a more passive mankind. With the getting of a computer programme and the specific equipment the people could feel as reality dreams that before only could be true in their minds. It would be possible to feel all sensations of the world as reality only using a computer.
	Nobody at this moment can forsee all that the virtual reality could suppose for the future of mankind but it is likely that it may be a confusing anb chaotic world without limits between fiction and reality and never more the mankind would use imagination and dreams.
