<ICLE-SP-UCM-0051.3>

	 	Perhaps Marx was right in the last century when he said that the religion was the opium of the masses, but nowadays his theory is absolutely old-fashioned. What religion really means today in our society? It is obvious that it means very few actually.
	In the 19th century, and according to Marx's philosophy, people lived for religion; he once said "man make religion, religion doesn't make the man".
	He thought that mankind was a victim of three kinds of alienations; ideological, economical and religious, of which the most important was the last one.
	The religious alienation consisted of the idea that religion send out the man outside of the real world, transporting him to a ficticious world. In this way, man had to look for that unreal and ideal world that religion has promised him. However, when Marx assert that religion is the opium of the masses is basing his theory on the thought that the religion alienation is doing a social function, being used as an instrument by the dominating class to press the weak dominated class.
	If we put into effect this concepts and ideas to the present they sound really rare, and they can even produce us laugh. Possibly also Marx would laugh at himself if he was alive and he discovered that everything is changed.
	As early as three years before his dead, in 1880, it begun the experiments whose result was the appearance of the television some years later. In 1926, John L. Baird made a system that is going to be one of the most predecessors of the modern television. From this creation, and all through this century, new technical advances are going to take place to the improvement of the television.
	Nobody could imagine that this new phenomenon was going to replace so many things as it do; even the impratance given to religion was going to be given to television with the passage of time.
	Television not only does now a social function done by religion in the 19th century, but it is also a much stronger influence in the present society. It represents the escape instrument from an often awful reality for many people; sometimes is surprising how people forget everyday-problems by watching T.V. for several hours. Curiously some years ago, the B.B.C. decided not to give dramatic informations on Saturday and Sunday, trying to be preasant to the spectator. It is evident that the television is condidioned by the public's characteristics and habits. However, at the same time T.V. is a conditional factor in the formation of social habits.
	This change (religion-television) can be considered from different points of view; it could be a good change if you think that people are not so obsessed by religion and spiritual themes as they were in the last century, and now there is less hipocrisy when we talk about religion; you can give your opinion franckly and nothing matters, and this liberty of expression is positive in all the aspects.
	However, it is not good the excesive influence that television has on people, due to many times the spectator lose the notion of reality, mixing this reality with fiction.
	 