<ICLE-SP-UCM-0020.1>

a) Describe the conditions in which drama was performed in the Middle Ages When Romans came to England they brought with them their drama but when they left they also took their literature with them; so no tradition in this field us left in English theatre.
During the Anglo-Saxon occupation there is a figure called the "cop" which narrated the heroe's deeds and probably this is the antecedent of the minstrel, an important figure in the tenth century.  This was a person who went from place to place providing entertainment to people and they depended on the good will of the people.  They entered castles in weddings and in any other celebrations, some of them famous and, of course, they were always welcomes and popular.  These were the most important, but there were also other as clowns and singer that did similar thing.
Church was agains them but soon they realised the importance of these figure and how they speeches were listened by people and some of the priests adopted this way of saying thing that were easy to understand by people.
Probably, this is the beginning of drama inside churches that was so important during the following centuries.  There are records of a bishop saying how this "representations" should be done: churches during the twelveth and thirteen century where the acting space for miracle  and mystery plays. Then these plays were performed by priest and chorus boys.  The theme of course where religious as the presentation of the Free Magic King to the Infant Christ, the Sacrifice of Isaac, the visit to the Empty Tomb etc.  They were presented on the big fiest as Corpus Christi, in Easter, in Christmas time etc.
Church began to realise that these religious representations where more popular because of their dramatic attractive than because of their religious content, and they were forbidden.
Then theatre came out of the churches and gilds were encharged of them.  The then incipient gilds provided not only economical suport but also acting figures working as amateurs from their own members.
Themes know became more secular although thy had some religious bases.  They introduced elements related to their job to show how they work and in some occasions they used this plays as social criticism.
Realism is introduced on the characters and they begin to act as human beings.
Four big circles are recorded in this period: the York circle, the Wakefiel circle, the Chester circle and the Coventry one.  Of them probable the most critic was the one of Wakefield where most of the pays were not completely religious.  In this last circle there is a play in which Mak and his wife robb a lamb and dress it as a baby an at the end they are discovered by other shepars.  This play shows how themes are changing and how they are becoming more realistic and critical.  This event happens during a religious celebration.  All this play were presented in open air and without a proper acting space.  They also used booths (platforms with wheels where the plays were performed) and they were from place to place.
b) In what way does Marlowe make Edward II a sympathetic character.
All main characters in Marlowe's plays don't change along it, they behave always in the same way Timberlaine, Faustus of Dido are mature figures.  Edward II is inmature, he learns about himself along the play.  He goes from a childish way of acting to a more mature one when he is running to his destruction and it is then when the audience begins to identify and understand.
All this change is helped by many devices used by Marlowe:  the way he uses the language, the metaphors of animals, change in the acting space, the way other characters and he himself see him, the vocabulary.
Language in Marlowe is a magnific way of constructing characters.  He uses the blank verse perfectly well and with it characters become human as it is not cut at the end of each line as in Kyd where character are pupets.  Ben Jonson named them "Marlowe's Might verse".  He dominates the way of use vocabulary in each moment, for instance when the king is beheaving as a child, he rages or cry.
Metaphors are related with the use of language.  He uses them in two way, on the one hand he uses sintagmatic metaphors as the sounds of been in the King's ears but he also make a paradigmatic use of them atributing each character an animal which was well know by the audience.
Here King Edward is given different animals behaviour as he grows in maturity. First his is seen as an inocent lamb on the hands of Gaveston that manipulates him.  After he is seen as a "stuck deer" when he is being arested by Mortimer and the nobles.
The only person in the play that sees him as the animal related to a king, the lion, is himself.  This shows not only his inocence but also his blindness and shows us a incapable king and at the same time his vulnerability.
Along the play we see how other characters see him.  At the beginning Gaveston shows us a frivolous man that enjoys fiest and doesn't care about the running of the kingdom.  Isabella refuses him as a man (she is in love with Gaveston) and as a king (she goes to France to fight against him), this makes of him an isolated man.  Mortimer "hunts" Isabella and fights against his king.  All this gives us the idea of an isolated man against humanity and the environment is growing as agressive that audience begins to feel grief of a bad king but a good inocent man.
All this is accompanied by the acting space.  At the beginning all of them are in the palace, everything is big and pleasant, then he is arrested and conducted to the castle and then to the dungeons where the atmosphere is terrible.  He is growing in personality and decreasing in kingship. He, being a king. is given bread and water, he is in water till his knees Lightborn is going to kill him, the audience is how absolutely sympathic with him although we know that he was not a good king.
Power has been lost but humanity and maturity have been gained when he is going to die.  It is a cruel lesson.
b 1) Describe the formal structure of Kyd's "Spanish Tragedy" This must be seen under the scope of Seneca's legacy of his vision of drama in Tragedies.
Aristoles said that a play had to have a beginning, a history and an end.  Although he was in some sense misunderstood in this period. This idea of the history told in a play was much better achieved with the division of the play in five acts that Seneca appointed.
Another important element of Seneca's plays was the supernatural world that is reflected in this play by Revange and the Gost of Andrea.  An this is conected with the violence and blood on stage.
The structure of the "Spanish Tragedy"  simetric.  This concept was spread among the playwright of the age.
The structure in this play could be drawn as follows: (boxes inside each other).  While in Marlowe's play we get >->-> (an ascending evolution to finish with a falling en -->.  In Shakespeare the structure goes up and down --> <---> >--> Macrocosmos of a supernatural world has its representation in the microcosmos of reality of the characters.
This interaction is achieved in Kyd's play by breaking the boundaries between these two worlds. The meeting point are Revange and Andrea which are mixed among the audience.  With that the audience in some sense form part of the "real" representation.
After the public we have the play, and its characters and inside the play we get another play "The Spanish Tragedy", represented at the end.  This is also seen in "Hamlet".
Revange and Andrea are presented at the beginning and at the end, to open and close the tragedy, but also when the play inside the play is going to be performed.
The third act, the one in the middle, is the act of crisis and from here there is a reaction to it.  This also make the play to be simetric and controled.
Verse used in the "Spanish Tragedy" also helps to give this idea of control for the verse out at the end of each line marks a caracteristic rhythm.
The characters are also controlled by the author and they beheave as pupets.
The theme: Revange is also Senecan and has also a simetric patern: Andrea asks for Revange because of his death in the battle.  Theronima asks for vengeance for the stain of his son Horatio and at the end the supernatural justice achieve this revange when the justice of man doesn't work.
As can be seen everything is directed to create this controlled simetrical and concentric structure of the play.
