<ICLE-SP-UCM-0046.3>

	Compulsory military service should not be included in the duties of the citizens of a country. In other words, armies should only consist of people willing to perform such service and to consider it as a profession. Although not everybody has the same opinion about that, there are several reasons why this assertion can be held.
	One of them deals with the unsuccessful prupose which is aimed. This purpose is to instruct men to use weapons in order to defend their country in the circumstances of war. However, in nine or twelve months, the only thing they learn is the hierarchic terminology of the army and the elements that constitute a weapon.
	Related to the previous reason there is another one that points to the little sense that can be found in preparing men for a war which would occur in developed countries, where no conflicts are likely to take place.
	But most importantly, personal and human reasons should be considered. First, many young boys are isolated being far from their relatives and friends, because nobody cares about dessignating appropriate places for fulfilling their "duty". This problem could be solved by simply considering the cities and towns they live in. Second, the fact of enrolling the army has a negative effect on the person`s studies or, in other cases, on their professional career, producing a sense of laziness in those who have been deprived of their chosen way of life. Thirdly, many people have moral principles that hinder them from using weapons and they refuse to take part in any military question. But they must realize other tasks for supplaying the service. Others don`t even want to realize such tasks and defend an attitude that leads them to prison.
	Despite the quoted reasons, reality can`t be forgotten. If compulsory military service exists in a country it is because the people has agreed by voting for a constitution that regards such a duty.
	But not all constitutions advocate for a compulsory service. The countries in which the army is formed by professional soldiers have demonstrated that their system is much more effective than that of the other countires. Such is the case of the United States or Great Britain, where soldiers are paid by the state.
	The advantages of these countries aree cinsiderably important. On the one hand, they are provided with a professional army consisting of qualificated prople, both men and women who have chosen to develop a military career. On the other hand, men are not obliged to do something they object to.
	If any disadvantage must be mentioned it is the one that deals with the financial aspect. It is very expensive to maintain a professional army, because ech soldier requires not only a high salary but also a convenient life insurance for their families, regarding the risks their lives are constantly running. All this is a little paradoxical in compulsory-service systems, when considering that the state has to pay for the food, clothes and other necessary expenses of the soldiers.
	Therefore, and as a conclusion, it seems that, unfortunately, armies are still necessary in the world. But what is not necessary is the imposition of a duty that has more cons than pros. A solution should be found. Some European countries are good examples to follow, even if they don`t have a professional army. In these countries, the military service is compatible with the person`s studies or job, or at least they are helped by the government.
