<ICLE-SP-UCM-0015.3>

	Science technology and industrialisation are dominating our modern world, but dreaming and imagination have as well place in our life.
The scientific developments which have been carried out during the last decades have made life much easier and comfortable to live. The efect of industrialisation have produced a lot of advantages with respect to the quality and safety of the human's life. One of the main advantages that technology offers us is that almost everything is made by machines facilitating the man's work.
But, what about the disadvantages of modern world?
	In this world almost ruled by computers, full of hate, bigotry, and selfishness, where the best is supposed to be the one who owns most, there is a space for dreaming and imagination. We can not limit our life making use of what modern civilization is offering us, material things which have already been created and that do not let us contribute in personal way.
We should stimulate ourselves by doing something new, something which adduce us a development as human beings, creating and making true our dearest dreams.
Human nature feels the necessity of escaping from the real life. If we are capable of fergeting about the reality which is surrounding us, we could fly to another worlds which could offer us satisfactions without material things.
But sometimes is difficult to cast aside the mask of civilization because it dominates our daily life.
	However, there are many people who live apart from development because they live in small towns quite far from big cities. The fact is that the habitants of these country towns do not make use of most of the advantages of technology and hence their lifes are obviously a more natural and single lifes.
Industrialisation brings itself a lack of spiritual things which are important for mankind. By means of dreaming and imagination we can make a much more pleasant life.
We do not have to follow what the rest of the world tries to inculcate us accepting an artificial and superficial way of life. We should follow our heart dictates and let our minds free for a while for reflexion.
	In our daily life we often suffer the weight of the increasing worries provocated by living in a modern world, where everything is done as a competition. This fact can be translated into some serious problems as for instance, falling into depression which mostly is a consequence of a nervous  strain famously known as the stress of modern life.
	As far as I'm concerned, I agree with what Mary Shelley says in her masterpiece "Frankenstein, or the Modern Prometheus", giving importance to imagination. Life for me is chaos and according to Shelley's opinion, "invention does not consist in creating out of void, but out of chaos", and that is the esence of imagination.
When something troubles me I use to let fly my dreams in attent to ease myself. But as everything done is excess, we can not afford to escape too much from reality and in spite of being good to potenciate our imagination, we must have the feet on the ground.
	Imagination and dreaming have much to do with creation. Most of artists like painters or writers have created their main works with the desire of reaching another places, situations or feelings which real life itself could not bring them. Their best masterpieces shows us a proof of the influence of their worries but also the need of avoiding the reality as an evasion.
	As conclusion, I would assert that in life we have a wide fan of possibilities of escaping from science technology and industrialisation, and if we are wise we can perfectly separate these chaotic world from a more spiritual and profit way of life. 	Dreams and imagination are our most powerful weapons to live in perfect armony and happiness.
	So let's keep on dreaming because only man and no machines are able to do it.
