<ICLE-SP-UCM-0027.3>

	It seems contradictory to say that crime does not pay since we all understand crime as an offence for which there is severe punishment by law; but indeed, crime does not pay, at least in a just way. A first approach to the conducts performed by person which are penalized by law, make us distinguish between crime and its effects or consequences.
	In the proper way, crime is an offence fulfiled by a person which is to be found in the penal code; it is therefore a social reproach that a community maks to the author of the crime in virtue of its laws, and these ones, withing their culture and millenary traditions. The compensation made by the author of the damages occasioned to the victim, as a consequence of his illicit conduct, constitutes another aspect in the matter which differs from those dealing with penal laws. In other words, the action of the criminal is predetermined by a social reproach which appears typified in the criminal code, as well as by the idemnification of the damages caused, which appears regulated in the civil code.
	So far, it eventually seems taht the law contains a perfect balance between the criminal`s rights and those of his victim, fact that, as it has been said before, would be opposed to our statement. However, in most cases the remuneration to the victim is not performed in a satisfactory way. What the law does is just the mere objectivity of the economic compesaion without considering the sujetive value that the victim may attribute to what has been illicitly taken away fro him.
	According to the juridical penal regulation, crimes can be commited, among others, against the person, against the sexual freedom, against the honour, against the property ... etc. This supposed crimes reveal graphically what we intend the content of these paragraphs to be , so their development will be helpful to our supporting ideas.
	There are two ways in which the law punished the criminal: a. Penalty. Obviously any crime contemplated in the rubrics already mentioned has the same denomination, which is, that his author will be punished within the penal regulation on the penalty corresponding to each of the crimes pointed out. Tht is, any author of a crime is punished under the penalty which is established for it in the penal code.
b. Indemnification. The delinquent, besides accomlishing the opportune penalty, is responsible for the damages caused to the victim when commiting the crime. In this sense we state that the criminal does not pay, since we consider the victim`s subjetive value very important.
	Therefore we have: 1. In regard to the crimes commited against the right of the person. When objectifying the economic compensation for one`s life (murder) or for the physical integrity of the erson (injuries), -objectivity which is quantified through ready reckiners,- it is not taken into account the significance of the subjective elements that the victim gives to what he no longer owns. It is clearly evinced in the case of the murder when the victim loses his right of life without any possible reparation, and only his inheritors would get some remuneration. Regarding to injuries, the criterion of the subjective importance is just the same. For example, if a beautiful actress gets a stab wih a clasp knife on the face, it is true that the profession of the victim is considered, but the remunerative compensation that she may get would not satify her completely since she will have a subjective esteem that cannot be compensated exclusively by economic solutions.
2. In regard to crimes commited against the right of the sexual freedom. The insatisfaction produced by the pecuniary reparation is also relected in this second kind of offences, such as the case of rape. Not even a great economic remuneration can make up for the traumas and uneasiness inherent in the outrage with which she will always have to live.
3. In regard to the crimes against the honour. Defamation is another example of the impossbility for the malefactor to pay faily for his guilt. When someone acts in a way that deliberately hurts a person`s feelings and dignity, the law can only objectify the moral harm done, but the amend made for it is never adequate to the person`s esteem of himself, and moreover, it is very difficult to verify someone`s reputation after it has been calumniated.
4. In regard to the crimes against the right of property. in this case it seems taht the idemnification given to the victim could fairly refund the lost of certain patrimony. However the cases in which this restitution has a satisfactory counterbalance are few. An examle of this would be the case in which someone steals an amount of money and afterwards, the victim is given the same amount in compensation. But in most cases the balance is not clear because the loss of any possesion is again objectified through monetary worht, which never takes into account the victim`s sentiments and subjective importance.
	In despite of all this, the best evidence to clearly show in which way crime does not pay, is the case of the murder: "nothing can compensate for the loss of one`s life, there is no restoration to life" 