<ICLE-SP-UCM-0007.2>

As a matter of fact, it is still completely true.
Animal Farm was first published in August 1945, only fourty-nine years ago. It is a short period of time and men have not had enough time to change. To speak frankly, I think men have not changed since they appeared on Earth. It is true that a lot of time has passed since then. I cannot deny that human beings have evolved a great deal. New discoveries are made day after day. This can be easily proved only by looking back one generation: our parents did not have the same luxuries we have now. As we all know this has happened because our brain has improved a lot since the beginnig of times and this is excellent. We can be very proud of this, but if we are so progressive, so rational, Why are there still wars, murders, discrimination...?
	In my opinion the problem is that our heart has not changed.
Men were, are and will be selfish, ambitious, anxious of power...( the list would be too long for this essay) But nowadays we think we are open to everybody without considering their differences...There are organizations whose work is to fight for the rights of the people, to avoid discrimination. But the results are really discouraging.
It is quite obvious that everyone is different: there are different nationalities, different colours, different religions, even different cvstoms in the same country, and if we are as rational as we think we are that would be considered something wonderful, admirable. Isn't it marvellous to live in a world where we can meet people with other ideas, opinions, cultures?. The cultural exchange can be very profitable for everybody.
This world would be boring if we were all the same without diverse colours, religions, customs, ideas. As I see it, it is impossible to discuss with anybody who has exactly the same ideas but of course some people could think that this way we all would be equal, but as I understand it all men are already equal, we are all human beings, different outside but equal inside.
But that is not what I see everyday. The reality is that some men always try to dominate, control other men who are not so strong, so powerful. As the song says:" Everybody wants to rule the world". And that can be good for animals. Among them there are always the strongest ones who survive and the weakest ones who are eliminated because there is not a place for weakness. But we are rational animals, we can think, or at least that is what we are told everyday, and we should know that our duty is  to protect the ones who are too weak to defend themselves, but this is too easy to forget when we try to get something and there is somebody between what we want and us.
It is always us, us, and us; well, we think about the others when we can manipulate them and then throw them away.
As the world is organized today there is not a place for equality; but it is not a new problem. Men have never been equal. It is something inherent to men to underestimate the others. There have always been some who ordered and some who obeyed and as this system works perfectly. Why are we going to change it?
But even if some people like the society we live in, the number of people who wants to find a new system where everybody could be equal is increasing everyday but it is very complicated to change a way of thinking that has always triumphed and even so I know some day all men will be equal. I hope it will be soon.
