<ICLE-SP-UCM-0017.3>

	The censorship has existed in all societies not only during this century but also during another centuries and due to the politic interest and the great influence of the mass media (press, radio, TV), it has obtained too much importance because it allows the control over the expression of ideas.  Therefore, it has caused discussion and polemics because the censorship has became a cause to restriction of a human right.  If within a country there is censorship, the government will not allow you to possess a total freedom.  The work of these persons consist in examine plays, books films, discourses and so forth..., and in cut out or ban any parts of them.
	In Spain, the first evidence of the existence of censorship date from the 16th century. The Reyes Católicos ordered present all the texts that going to be printed to certain authorities (eclesiastical or lays). These authorities examined the texts and they judge what texts could be printed.  Another organism of censorship before 20th century was the Inquisición.  This organism started to publish his catalogues about books that were matter of prohibition or about books from which were suppressed some words, clauses or passages.  An example of book examined by these authorities was a book of Fernando de Rojas "La Celestina".
	 	Depending on the government, the consorship could be more or less rigorous. The countries with a dictatorship possess the most rigorous censorship.  We can find an example during the last century when Spain was under the power of Franco.  Virtually he established a very strong and total control over all mass media and all politic information.  A lot of people were in prison because of they were found talking about policy so the associations were clandestine.
	 	The censorship tries to avoid or at least to soften the danger of a total freedom in the manifestation of ideas.  Also it is very frequent in the Western democracies the government gives mass media and artistic associations subsidies.  Actually the government gets on the one hand a better quality of the work that is the lest important benefit and on the other hand an absolute certaintly about the ideologic cotain and political point of it.
	The special importance of cinema, as a medium of communication in modern age, has caused the appearance of a number of organizations which have aroused during all this century for examining the films. This fact signifies a check for the development of the cinema. In the films there exit cuts of some parts that could offend the taste of the spectator.  For example in Great Britain there are different types of signs for the exhibition of films. If in the TV, the letter V appears in the screen, it means that the film is authorized for all publics; the letter A means that it is only for adults and the letter X means that it is not authorized for people under 16.  A thing very similar occurred few years ago in Spain. In the screen of the television one or two "rombos" should appear if the film contains erotic parts.
	 	The above discussion shows that the censorship in Western societies represents a barrier to the total freedom of expression and that it could operate over films, books, newspaper, etc... even today.
