<ICLE-SP-UCM-0006.3>

	Television has overtaken our everyday's world.
	Our brains are dirty, dirty and full of nonsense just because of that popular drug.
	Because T.V. in its different forms is always a drug not less dangerous than tobacco, heroine or alcohol.
	The word drug menas for some people a relieve for all our pains, it is like escaping to another different world free of problems.
	And... is not television like that? When you sit befgore your T.V. set and watch at the images in movement it is like entering in to another world where everything is fine and mervellous, where each prince manages at the end to safe his princess, where each grief turns to joy and all the problems have an end.
	Nowadays everything revolves about T.V., the industrialism have find out a good way of reaching the people in this big square box, and record companies, films production centers, etc... have the chance to promote their products by this simple and appealing way.
	People light up their eyes, open their mouths and listen carefully to everything that is said in this communication medium.
	It seems like every image from T.V. is like a god we have to adore because everything there is so perfect, nothing can be wrong.
	It is funny and also a pity seeing old people fall asleep watching the square box, but... are they really watching at their T.V. set? I do not think they are, they just keep it on like a guard for their security, so they fall asleep relieved and quiet. They are so safe in that imaginary world.
	All this reflects what kind of drug T.V. is and, like a drug, soon its bad effects are shown.
	Children are the more dispossed to fall in the tramp, because they are young an unesperted and believe everything of the fantastic world that pass throught their eyes, they try to imitate it.
	Violence continually shown in films and cartoon are the most perjudicial things because infants grow surrounded by them and when they become older they are more likely to develope that violence.
	Maybe we should call them potential murderers. Anyway, children are not the only ones who fall into this drug, also old people are gravely affected by T.V. as I explained before, and people in general become more violent and thinkless when it comes to Television.
	It is not nice seeing one family always fighting just because they want to watch their own favourite programmes in different channels? Television has always been a war and not only between families but also between the same channels themselves. They are always fighting to trap the best rank of audience when they should be colaborating with each other to show proper and educational programmes.
	Of course everything is not so bad, in Television there are some documental and interesting programmes and series that help us to develope our intelligence and to know beautiful things about the world.
	Anyway normally the most popular programmes are those which are full of action, sex or money os the producers and directors of the different channels have not much choice and give the public what they want, or what they have done beliebe the public they want.
	So, welcome to that marvellous and funny world where everything is fine and be carefull because before you realise you will be caught by that terrible drug called T.V. and then it will be too late to turn it off.
