<ICLE-SP-UCM-0050.3>

	 	The aim of this essay is to consider the relationship between the technology and the placement of imagination in the actual times.
	The modern world is dominated by science technology and industrialization, because of many studies and investigations specially in the areas of communication, computers, energy... But many of these matters exist as results of a process in which the dreamings and imagination occur. Why do the machines exist and work but because a mad absent-minded scientist finds the way to improve our standard of living?
	Fortunately, this wise person has the wonderful attitud to create thanks to his or her dreamings and objectives, making a continuous mixture of real and imaginaries successes intermingled with every new results of the investigations. This person has the nice hope of a common and better world.
	The satisfaction is the greatest sensation and emotion that the investigator or, on the other hand, the dreamer can feel if his or her aim can be made.
	In my view, the dreaming and imagination act is totally natural and necessary because helps us to ease the difficult situations that often occur day-to-day at work, in bus stop, in the tube, in an elevator, when you go to the dentist in the waitingroom, etc, forgeting the preocupations and dying out the anguish, creating new environments in a real world or in an impossible one an thus, relaxing your mind and body if you imagine nice events and otherwise, being frightened due to dark and horrible mental pictures making you live a danger nightmare.
	In both cases (using the imagination for a real purpose and using it to run away from the real world), when the dreamings and imagination take place daily, the pass of time is an interesting point that we can regard, because it is a constant, is continuous; I mean that this fact is not positive for the creation because the process of create essentially needs a subject does not worry for the time, not difficulting this one.
	But it is a fact that during the childhood and the teenage years, you have much more illusions to create; the babies virtually live in an imaginary world and the teenagers look like absent-minded people for the resaon they would like to create, to improve their social reality and knowledge and on that way, to build their future time.
	From my point of view, to imagine is an attempt to scape from the reality, perhaps from the stress produced as result of a very common phenomena, the anxiety.
	In my view, we must learn to spend the time knowing exactly we are spending the time.
	On the other hand, to conclude this essay it only remains to add that nowadays we live in a world in which the technology is habitual and the imagination takes place on a second plan; but the way I look at it, there are many people using their imagination as a medium to survive, working such as painter, writer, sculptor, fashion or interior designer, architect, photographer, or perhaps a thief dreaming a new role of living totally, or a politician making new projects to improva a much better social and political situations.
	Ultimately, then it is wonderful to have the power of fiction and the attitud to polish the inventiveness.
