<ICLE-SP-UCM-0018.1>

Imagination is the force that makes us blossom like flower buds. I an convinced of it and , what is more, nobody would disagree if they stopped to think about it. Dreams are the instruments of imagination, through them we begin to give shape to all the formless ideas that wander in our brain.
These are such poetic notions that everybody will laugh at them, no doubt of it. Or maybe nearly everybody, since it is generally considered that imagination and dreams have definitively come to an end and , what is worse, it does not seem to be of any importance to those who consider it to be true.
And why have we come to such a conclusion? Materialism is the key word. It cannot be denied that many of us consider worthless what is not useful, or at least, what we believe to be so. The answer to the question " what is imagination for?" has not got a strightforward reply. Only if we reflect on it carefully we realise that the most brilliant human achievements are based on it : men dreamed of planes before thay could fly on them. No matter how much knowledge we have about something, if we do not manage to put it to good use, we will not be able to make it work. And this can pnly be achieved through imagination.
To think is to live and to dream is to be human. Imagination cannot be regarded as essential only because of its inmediate beneficial effects but because of its "inner" self as well. Scientists are not certain about animals but we are sure to be able to make up undiscovered worlds never visited only closing our eyes and setting our mind in motion. This faculty cannot be undervaluated since it permits us something as simple as to be on the watch, taking it for granted that sooner or later new things will arrive and we must be prepared to face them. Imagination does not let people rest on their laurels: it foretells them what is still to come.
Imagination is not only attached to the scientific environment but also to the artistic one. What would it be of cinema, literature and art in general without it ? This side of our lives cannot be dismissed. To create art is to communicate messages that could not be expressed in any other way. And most of the times we forget that behind the great novel or the marvellous symphony that have bewitched us, imagination has played a main part.
The role of imagination has been clarified, when to make use of it is something to be pursued at any time or place. Nowadays we are much more worried about looking ahead than inside us. In doing so, we lack a sense of perspective that once lost is not easy to recover. Imagination and material development fit well with each other only if we manage to handle them accurately. The fact that the latter tends to eliminate the former has nothing to do with them but with our stubborn obsession of turning everything upside down.
