<ICLE-SP-UCM-0012.3>

	 	Years back going to University was something that not many people could afford. Therefore only wealthy families could pay for their children's education. The main problem was not only the expenses of university but, that while people were sduding could not work and earn money so they were not productive for their families, that depended on that income to survive. That is why the majority of people left school when they were still very young, having learnt the very basic things. From school they went straight to work, but they did not do anything in relation with that they studied. As that was very little, or in some cases nothing at all, they were obliged to do manual work. Some of them managed to get a job as an apprentice of some sort and that way they learnt a trade. While others looked after animals, worked the land and so on.
	This semi-skilled or unskilled working class wanted something better for their children, wanted them to have an education and go to university and become doctors lawyers, etc. As the economical situation has changed, they have been able to send them there. So nowadays most of the youngsters that belong to those social clases go to university, most of them, because they do not want to do manual works like their parents do. This is one of the reasons why universities are so crowded.
	As so many people go to university, teaching becomes a difficult task. The number of students per class is quite large, that is why professors are very limited, and classes are more theoretical than practical. Only a few degress have practical classes and those happen to be all science, such as medicine, chemistry, biology and so on. In any case the practice is not enough but at least they have something. Most university degrees have not practical classes at all. Even though that is neither the proffessors' fault nor the students, they all suffer the consequences. One of the consequences is that students only rely on exams to get the degree, and most times this is not fair because they are not able to prove what they can do but how good their memory is. The most important consequence is to face the problems they have, once they leave university. One of them is to find a job, but that is nothing to do with education, it is a social and economical matter. The second and greatest problem is to perform what they have learnt. Because they did not have practical classes they do not have any experience therefore they do not know what to do with what they have studied. This leads to an important question in the student's mind. Is is really worth to spend five years of one's life studying for nothing?. This, and other questions do not have a clear answer.
	Although they have no answers to many of the questions that go through their minds, they have no many other choices. On one hand if they do not study, the posibility of working is almost nonexistent. But no the other hand if they obtain their degree, it is of a very little value, as all they know is theory and they do not have any practical experience.
	Thus, the only thing these students can do is to fight in order to make the government invest more money in education so that they could have more practice in their degrees.
