<ICLE-SP-UCM-0011.3>

	 	The money is considered to be the root of all evil for most of people. But the root of all evil has to be found in the heart of human being. This tendency of consideration of money, as the root of evil, comes from the guitiness that we have in our acts and for this, we try to chat ourselves by blaming that the money has the fault.
	In the daily life, frequently the people accuse the money of being the reason of the divorce, of the problem caused between the enterprises and the workers, and it can even reach the conclusion of the hunger in the Third World. There is no doubt that the money can solve many difficult situations, but the money can not be responsable of bad acts produced by the men.
	The root of all evil can be found in the negative aspects which is carried by the human being: the egoism, the aggressiveness, the disbelieve, etc. Still today, between the last primitive villages of the Amazonian forrest, exists the bloody fights eventhogh those primitive villages have no concept of money. In the ancient Greece, people killed defective children; in the World War II, thousand of Jewish and hundreds of Gipsies were killed by the Nazis because Jewish and Gipsies were considered one of the inferior races. In the year of 1949 to 1950, when Tibet was invaded by the troops of the Communist China, many Tibetans died because they did not want to loose their liberty and their independant. For many people, these examples mentiones above may be considered as the consequence of economic reasons that impulsed the men to convoke the War. But on my way of seeing this, we have to search this root of all evil acts in our egoism, in our desire of the power and cruelty of the human being.
	As we grow up, we receive the mask of the civilization. However, this kind of mask taht is in us disappear in a certain limited situation, like the example of during the War. Then all the cruelty of the men appear spontaniously and all their energies are dedicated towards their survival. If they have money, they will expend that money by buying the foods, clothings or weapons to be able to survive, but the money has nothing to do with racial, hate nor with the religious in tolerance with have unchained the Bosnian War.
	In conclusion, in every human being at the same time, there is a good side and a bad side, like all free men are responsable of their acts. Our choice of good or bad way of living, it depends on everyone of us. So, every time when a men does the evil, they should not just blame the money but accept that they evil was in him, in the inner part of him, where they must look for the real root of the evilness that it is around men.
