<ICLE-SP-UCM-0012.1>

It is easy enough to make broad generalisations about the mistakes in the present-day education system at universities, but in reality the issue is an extremely complex one. How prepared are the students when they finish their degree at university.? Do they receive a practical or a theoretical preparation in their years at university.? Are they prepared to face the real world once they've got a degree under their arms.?...This brings us to the question whether the university system should change.
Since we are children, we are said that the most important thing in life is education. It doesn't matter how much effort we have to put in it and how much work we have to do to achieve the so wanted degree but we should go for it, then as anyone living in a competitive society where only the best ones get what they are fighting for, we believe in those claims and assume our role as students, as people fighting for that "valuable status" you get when leaving university, and that it will help you to live a better life. But is this completely true.? Until what point the fact of being a graduate student means that we are well prepared, that we are more qualified to do a job than other person who did not have the opportunity of attending university.? On the other hand, that person probably has more practical experience than the one we've got. And why.? we can wonder... simply because while we were cramming for years they already had a post in which they had been acquiring practical knowledges.
To illustrate the truth of this, one has only to mention people's dissapointment when realizing how little value has the time spent at university. A recent newspaper article claimed that a very high percent of graduate students believe that they know nothing about what they have been taught in their years in the campus, and, more and more of them are joining postgraduate courses in order to extend their lives as students and avoid, doing this, the terrible moment of looking for a job within a society where unemployment is increasing everyday - which brings us to another side of the question: Is our attitude as passive students the correct one.?
It is undoubtedly true that things could improve, that a solution should be found so as to fix a balance between the theoretical knowledges and the practical ones that we acquire at university. One might reasonably suppose that practical courses at university would help a lot to attenuate this unbalance and to strengthen the validity of the system.
My personal opinion of this argument is that as the tittle says most university degrees are theoretical and of very little value. There are exceptions, of course, such as the great majority of private institutions which give to their students the opportunity of putting into practice the knowledges they receive by supplying them professional training in different firms...but What about the rest of the people who cannot afford going to these kind of centres.? Are  they going to have equality of opportunity.? Probably, they are not.
The key to this whole problem must surely be the development of a new educational system which without leaving the acquisition of theoretical knowledges apart would pay more attention to the decisive importance of a good practical training of the students.
