<ICLE-SP-UCM-0013.2>

	When I readed "Animal Farm" a few years ago, I was moved by this sentence precisely: "All men are equal: but some are more equal than others". And nowadays, I think it's still totally true.
	 There are a lot of situations to which we can apply this assertion.
	 Let's think about some of them.
	 Let's think sbout the suffering of people in the 3rd world. They don't have covered even the most basic necessity: The food.
	They are dying for starvation or lack of medicines while we consume and spend our money in superfluous things. They are dying while the "1st world" throw out their surplus to prevent the coming down of the prices and therefore to maintain their economy.
	 Why do we think that they are not equal to us?.
	Let's think about the thousands of children who have to work in order to support their families: The little miners of Colombia, the children who work more than ten hours a day making carpets or crystal bracelets in India, the children who pick up saffron with their little hands during the night .
	They haven't access to the education, and probably most of them will dye before they were 15 or 16, while the children of the manager who bought them, go to the university in Europe.
	Why do we think that they are not equal to our children?.
	Let's think also about the different races in the world.
	People who were not white have been discriminated through the history: Black people, Indians, half-breed people, Orientals, Arabs, Gypsies etc,. And nowadays this discrimination is still going on.
	Why do they have to live in "guetos"?
	Why don't they have access to the education in many cases?
	We don't want them when they como to our countries running away from horrible situations, and we think they all are delinquents or criminals.
	Why do we think that they are not equal to us?.
	But we can find more of these examples nearer to us: 	Let's think about the homosexuals or lesbians. People who have to hide themselves because we think that we have the right to judge them.
	We deny them the opportunity of being married or of having children. We despise and insult them.
	Why do we think that they are not equal to us?
	Let's think sbout the girls who are not considered like their brothers in many homes and about the women: workers, mothers and housewives who are the actual supporters of their families.
	Women who have got their access to the working world, have to work out and inside their homes.
	Many of these women who are prepared to hold responsibility posts, are beibg limited because of they are women.
	There are women who are considered only as objects, who are violated and who are phisically and mentally ill-treated by their husbands in many cases.
	Why do they think thsa we are not equal to them?.
	The list would be neverending: Old people, drug adicts, people affected by AIDS, mentally or phisically handicapped people, homeless etc,.
	People who are not considered as equal.
	So, unfortunately, nowadays, George Orwell's sentence is probably truer than never.  	However, we have to hold the hope and to educate our children in the tolerance, in order to they can live in a better world in the future.
