<ICLE-SP-UCM-0033.3>

	In the words of the old song "Money is the root of all evil", we find a great true. If we think a little we will see that in the bottom of all evil, directly or indirectly, is money. I am not pretend to search the origin of money or who invented money, I just want to show my divagations about something in what people don't used to think because they are in a hurry at any time.
	Since that the trade was born and someone coined the first coin the evil had other friend and together began their gait by the world. As the civilizations progessed, the prestige of money was more powerful, and so the society structured in social classes by money, who had more money was in the top, who hadn't money caved in the misery. The vital needs subordinated to it, people observed the importance of money and here all began; History tell us how Judas sold to Christ to the romans by thirty silver coins, how the black people were sold and bought by money, how people killed others by money and how people couldn't eat because they hadn't money, there were more things that we don't know but that we can see now in our society in an exagerate way.
	Money brutify the persons, it makes grow up in them the ambition for having more and more money. Today there aren't slaves-like the topic of black people with chains- but there are slaves of money, people who lives only for money, they consider  the first money and after the health, love, family... they think only about money, and money for them disappears and with some parasites that they had come up to the smell of money, and then here starts the desesperation and the evil waits his moment for acting. All of this conducts us to think one thing, money doesn't make happy to people, there are other things in this world that we can't forget, things more important than money and more beautiful that make us feel alive, thing like love or other little things like the smile of a child  a kiss, a sweet word, to eat chocolate...
	Money is the cause of the majority of misafortunes in this world and money must worry us the minimum, because how said in the words of the modern song "Money for nothing".
