<ICLE-SP-UCM-0001.2>

	The television is a crazybox that can paralise all the man powers to turn him into a simple receiver. The difference between the man and the animal is that the man can engange in a dialogue with other person, I mean, they can listen, analyze, argue and express an opinion. The television does these things instead of yourself, it gives you the reason without other posibility; but those reasons aren´t always true, even to the person who says them.
	The dialogue, charasteristic of the person, requires an effort and it´s plain that, nowadays, people avoid doing something that requires effort; they look for comfort, not complications, they prefer to allow themselves to be carried. That is normal because he has a body that complains of the effort, but it´s a pity because we are not only a body, we have intelligence and volition too, so we can see if something suits us and do it although our body asks us the opposite. Nowadays we tend to respond to our body more than our mind.
	The opium is a narcotic that produces hallucinations, unreal images. Can we say that the television is the opium of the masses? I would say it, but not for everybody.
	The television is the opium of the masses because it often shows unreal images. They tell us what they want we know, a limited version of the reality, one point of view. They have a purpose and they get it because we have the television idealized. We believe in everything that it shows us. We don´t think about what we are seeing. We will swallow whatever we are told as a delicious dish 	What are they getting with this? They are getting animals instead of people; animals thinking that the life is a soap opera. How many people are there sitting opposite the television every days at four o'clock in the afternoon seeing those stupid programs? Don't kid yourself, the life is not a soap opera, the life is your family, your friends, your work...
	But not only soap operas, we can talk about violence in the cartoon films, the quizes, etc.
	Perhaps it seems a very critical opinion. I'm not against the television. I think it's a very big invention, if it is used right, to educate people, to teach to think... But it cannot be allowed that the authorities of a country use it to move the masses, even less if their aims are personal, when the main function of them is to watch over the people, not over theirselves.
	The television is the opium of a lot of people and somebody takes advantages of it. But it's our fault because it's very easy to switch off the set and sit to talk with somebody, it's very easy to read a good book, it's very easy to listen to music or to go to a museum... I'm trying to say that there are a lot of very interesting things to do in our lifes instead of wasting our time watching television.
	If television is the opium of the masses that is because it's easier to swallow without masticating although what they swallow is not the best.
