<ICLE-SP-UCM-0048.3>

	If Marx were alive, he would say today that television is the opium of the masses. We have been observed throughout that almost everybody watches television; so, television could perfectly be the guide of the masses as Marx would say if he lived today.
	Television can persuade you about something in very different ways. First, television has the power of being able to show you images that can catch your eye in the way they want to be caught. This is the way, by which something that did not interest you at all, begin to interest you from the moment that you watch an image or a group of images on television which encourage you to buy it independently on wether you need it or not. This can be illustrated by an advertisement of Coca-cola. In the first advertisement of Coca-cola, avery beautiful woman, in a very beautiful place, is drinking Coca-cola. What really catches your eye is the beauti of the woman and the calmness of the place but not the drink itself; as a conclusion, we drink Coca-cola only because we think it is how we could be beautiful, fresh and calm.
	Another way of persuading people on television is by using "words". People speaking on television can use words that, once connected one to the other, might focus on facts which can be interpreted in one way or another and therefore, encourage you indirectly to choose what they think is the right thing, not giving a chance to change our mind with regard to the subject. For instance, let's take the case of the last elections in Spain. Television showed a lot of colloquies, in which only two political parties, that is P.P and P.S.O.E., were on. So, that is the same as telling us that we must give our votes to either of these two parties. The other political parties, such as, I.U,C.D.S.,etc...were forgotten to the eyes of those who did not know anything about politics, and wanted to know what each of the different parties could offer and therefore, feel free to vote for that one in particular. Of course, if they only let them know about the two most important parties, all the votes will go for them, however this is not at all fair.
	Besides these aforementioned ways of people being persuaded by the television, there is another point to be considered. Some television channels are politically influenced and transmit their influence to the television watchers.
