<ICLE-SP-UCM-0010.3>

	What is the significance of a University? And, what does the concept of a University mean to us? According to Collins' dictionary, "A University is an intitution where students study for degress and where academic research is done. " Then to be able to understand the notion of the word University, we must know what degee menas as it is the main idea that holds the worde University. "A Degree at University or polytechnic is a course of study that you take there, or the quelification that you get when you have passed the course." For the scholars a University means the enterance door of a new world, a place to prepare for what you have planned to be. But do these concepts concorde with the reality?
	Facing the real world after the graduation of a University, produces certain problems for the students. One of them is that some college educations have not been so useful for a number of students. One of the proof that we can find is in the case of foreigners. Many foreign students of Hispanic Philology graduates, emmigrated to Sapin, have faced with many language barriers. This kind of problem is mainly based on the fact that the educations received in the University were basically theoretical and not so practical as it should be.
	Another problem that can be faced by the students is that the field itself is no big help for what they want to do in the future. Such case as for those students who wants to work in an International company, the philology itself which deals with Linguistics and Literature has very little to do with the job that they would like to have. The only purpose of them choosing this field is to learn more languages which only occupies about 10% of the classes, which means that about 80% to 90% of the time dedicated to study has not been a great help for their outside life. Thus, the 90% pass their examps, however, after a month or so, it is forgotten by most scholars which means a big waste of time, and it would have been much bhetter to go an academy.
	In addition to these problems, another problem can be mentioned with deals with the University seen from the outside world. In some countries there is the wrong mentality to think that the University degrees are the key fo everything in the world. In other words, the only way for them to be accepted form the society, they must enter and finish the best University of their country and receive the degrees. This phenomena es mainly presented by the exigency of a University degrees which our society requires. So, it seems that there are many nomber of companies that demand the degrees received in a University as if it is the most important part of a human being.
	Not all the problems related to a University occure after the graduation. Some are produced in the enterance exam. The most known cases occure in the field that requires a lot of talent such as in the Faculty of Fine Arts. This problem is mostly related to the question of being theoretical as it has been mentioned before as one of the problem that occure inside the education of University. It seems as this do not happen only in the classes given in the University but also before the beginning of University life and in such Faculty as Fine Arts has more tendendy to receive more theoretical students than talented.
	In conclusion, there are mainly three problems related to the University. The first problem is the problem related to the University Education, and the second one is the strong exigency of the University degrees in the society. The last one is related to the requirement of more theoretical aspect than the talent not only after the University but also in the enterance exam. Therefore, actually the University do not prepare students for the real world and they are of very little value.
